<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 pairs of question-answer in CSV format based on the given context about prime numbers. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly.

The context explains that a prime number is a natural number greater than 1 that can't be formed by multiplying two smaller natural numbers. Composite numbers are those that can be. The fundamental theorem of arithmetic states that every number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes. There are algorithms like trial division, Miller-Rabin, and AKS for checking primality. The largest known prime as of December 2018 is a Mersenne prime with 24,862,048 digits. Also, there are unsolved problems like Goldbach's conjecture and the twin prime conjecture. Primes are used in cryptography and have various representations.

Now, I need to create 10 questions. Let me list possible topics: definition of prime, composite numbers, fundamental theorem, primality tests, algorithms, largest known prime, unsolved problems, applications in cryptography, properties, and examples.

I should ensure each question is unique and based on the provided facts. For example, the first question could be the definition of a prime number. The second might be about composite numbers. Then, the fundamental theorem, primality tests, algorithms, largest prime, unsolved problems, cryptography applications, properties, and maybe examples of primes.

Wait, the example given in the problem includes questions like the only divisor of a prime, the name of the theorem, etc. So I need to make sure the questions are varied and cover different aspects. Let me check the facts again to ensure the answers are accurate.

For example, the largest known prime as of December 2018 is a Mersenne prime with 24,862,048 digits. But the example in the problem mentions 22.338.618 digits in January 2016. So I need to check if the user's context is up to December 2018, but the example is from 2016. Wait, the context says "as of December 2018 the largest known prime number is a Mersenne prime with 24,862,048 decimal digits." So the answer for the largest known prime should be 24,862,048 digits. However, the example given in the problem has a different number. But the user's context is the one to follow. So I should use the context's information.

Another point: the example mentions the Miller-Rabin test and AKS test. So questions about those algorithms are valid. Also, the fundamental theorem is mentioned. The property of being prime is called primality. The answer for "What is the name of the property that designates a number as prime or not?" is "primality."

I need to make sure each question is unique and not repeated. Let's start drafting:

1. What is the definition of a prime number?
2. What are numbers greater than 1 that are not prime called?
3. What theorem states that every number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes?
4. What is the name of the property that determines if a number is prime or not?
5. What is the name of the algorithm that checks primality by testing divisibility by numbers up to the square root?
6. What is the name of the probabilistic algorithm used for primality testing?
7. What is the name of the deterministic algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality?
8. What is the largest known prime number as of December 2018 in terms of digits?
9. What are some unsolved problems related to prime numbers?
10. What are the applications of prime numbers in information technology?

Wait, the user's example includes questions like the only divisor of a prime, the name of the theorem, etc. So maybe I should adjust to fit the context. Let me check the facts again.

The facts mention that numbers like 167, 109, 31, etc., have prime factorizations. So maybe a question about the property of being prime. Also, the example includes the term "primalidade" as the answer for the property. So that's covered.

Another point: the context mentions that the largest known prime as of December 2018 is a Mersenne prime with 24,862,048 digits. So that's a key fact.

I need to make sure that each question is based on the context provided, not external knowledge. The answer must be directly from the context. So, for example, the answer to "What is the name of the algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality?" is "AKS primality test."

I should check each answer against the context. Also, the example in the problem includes questions like the one about the number of digits of the largest prime in 2016, but the context says December 2018. So the answer should be 24,862,048 digits.

Now, compiling the 10 questions:

1. What is the definition of a prime number?
2. What are numbers greater than 1 that are not prime called?
3. What theorem states that every natural number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes?
4. What is the name of the property that determines if a number is prime or not?
5. What is the name of the algorithm that checks primality by testing divisibility by numbers up to the square root?
6. What is the name of the probabilistic algorithm used for primality testing?
7. What is the name of the deterministic algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality?
8. What is the largest known prime number as of December 2018 in terms of digits?
9. What are some unsolved problems related to prime numbers?
10. What are the applications of prime numbers in information technology?

Now, check if these questions are covered in the context. The context mentions the definition, composite numbers, fundamental theorem, primality, trial division, Miller-Rabin, AKS, largest known prime, unsolved problems like Goldbach and twin primes, and applications in cryptography.

Yes, these are all covered. Now, ensure that the answers are concise and within 10 words.

Let me write them out:

1. What is the definition of a prime number?;A natural number greater than 1 not divisible by any smaller number.
2. What are numbers greater than 1 that are not prime called?;composite numbers.
3. What theorem states that every natural number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes?;fundamental theorem of arithmetic.
4. What is the name of the property that determines if a number is prime or not?;primality.
5. What is the name of the algorithm that checks primality by testing divisibility by numbers up to the square root?;trial division.
6. What is the name of the probabilistic algorithm used for primality testing?;Miller–Rabin primality test.
7. What is the name of the deterministic algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality?;AKS primality test.
8. What is the largest known prime number as of December 2018 in terms of digits?;24,862,048 decimal digits.
9. What are some unsolved problems related to prime numbers?;Goldbach's conjecture and twin prime conjecture.
10. What are the applications of prime numbers in information technology?;public-key cryptography.

Wait, the answer for the 9th question is "Goldbach's conjecture and twin prime conjecture" but the context mentions "Goldbach's conjecture, that every even integer greater than 2 can be expressed as the sum of two primes, and the twin prime conjecture, that there are infinitely many pairs of primes having just one even number between them." So that's correct.

The 10th question's answer is "public-key cryptography," which is mentioned in the context.

Now, check if each answer is within 10 words. Let me count:

1. "A natural number greater than 1 not divisible by any smaller number." → 12 words. Hmm, that's over. Need to shorten.

Wait, the example answers in the problem are shorter. For example, "O que são números maiores que 1 que podem ser divididos por 3 ou mais números chamados?;número composto." So the answer is "número composto" (6 words). So maybe I need to make the answers more concise.

Let me rephrase the answers:

1. What is the definition of a prime number?;A natural number greater than 1 with no divisors other than 1 and itself.
2. What are numbers greater than 1 that are not prime called?;composite numbers.
3. What theorem states that every natural number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes?;fundamental theorem of arithmetic.
4. What is the name of the property that determines if a number is prime or not?;primality.
5. What is the name of the algorithm that checks primality by testing divisibility by numbers up to the square root?;trial division.
6. What is the name of the probabilistic algorithm used for primality testing?;Miller–Rabin primality test.
7. What is the name of the deterministic algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality?;AKS primality test.
8. What is the largest known prime number as of December 2018 in terms of digits?;24,862,048 decimal digits.
9. What are some unsolved problems related to prime numbers?;Goldbach's conjecture and twin prime conjecture.
10. What are the applications of prime numbers in information technology?;public-key cryptography.

Now check the word counts:

1. "A natural number greater than 1 with no divisors other than 1 and itself." → 10 words. Okay.

2. "composite numbers." → 2 words.

3. "fundamental theorem of arithmetic." → 4 words.

4. "primality." → 1 word.

5. "trial division." → 2 words.

6. "Miller–Rabin primality test." → 4 words.

7. "AKS primality test." → 3 words.

8. "24,862,048 decimal digits." → 4 words.

9. "Goldbach's conjecture and twin prime conjecture." → 5 words.

10. "public-key cryptography." → 3 words.

All answers are within 10 words. Now, check if the answers are correct based on the context.

Yes, the context says the definition of a prime number, composite numbers, fundamental theorem, primality, trial division, Miller-Rabin, AKS, the largest known prime digits, and applications in cryptography.

I think that's all. Now, format them into CSV with commas and quotes as needed.
</think>

```csv
" What is the definition of a prime number? ","A natural number greater than 1 with no divisors other than 1 and itself."
" What are numbers greater than 1 that are not prime called? ","composite numbers."
" What theorem states that every natural number greater than 1 is either prime or can be uniquely factored into primes? ","fundamental theorem of arithmetic."
" What is the name of the property that determines if a number is prime or not? ","primality."
" What is the name of the algorithm that checks primality by testing divisibility by numbers up to the square root? ","trial division."
" What is the name of the probabilistic algorithm used for primality testing? ","Miller–Rabin primality test."
" What is the name of the deterministic algorithm that always gives the correct answer for primality? ","AKS primality test."
" What is the largest known prime number as of December 2018 in terms of digits? ","24,862,048 decimal digits."
" What are some unsolved problems related to prime numbers? ","Goldbach's conjecture and twin prime conjecture."
" What are the applications of prime numbers in information technology? ","public-key cryptography."
```