<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs in CSV format based on the given context about computational complexity theory. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly. The abstract mentions that computational complexity theory classifies computational problems based on resource usage, relates them, and talks about things like time, storage, communication, circuits, etc. It also mentions related fields like analysis of algorithms and computability theory.

First, I should list out the key points from the context. The main topics are classification by resource usage, computational problems, resource measures (time, storage, communication, gates, processors), related fields (analysis of algorithms, computability theory), and specific problems like P vs NP. Also, the distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory is important.

Now, I need to create varied questions that cover these areas without repetition. Let's start with the main classification. The first question could be about the main focus of computational complexity theory. The answer would be classifying problems by resource usage.

Next, the second question might ask about the role of computational complexity theory, which is determining practical limits on what computers can do. Then, a question about the two main resources used to measure complexity: time and storage. 

Another question could be about the term for a task solvable by a computer, which is a computational problem. Then, the measure of a problem's difficulty, which is the resources needed for its solution. 

The next question could involve the method used to quantify resources, which are mathematical models of computation. Then, the two main resources for measuring complexity: time and storage. 

Another point is the role of computational complexity theory in determining practical limits. Then, the two fields closely related to computational complexity: analysis of algorithms and computability theory. 

A question about the key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory. Also, the field that analyzes resources of a specific algorithm. 

Finally, the P vs NP problem is part of computational complexity theory. 

I need to make sure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check if I have 10 distinct questions. Let's count: 1. Classification focus, 2. Role of the theory, 3. Two main resources, 4. Term for a task, 5. Measure of difficulty, 6. Method to quantify resources, 7. Two main resources again (maybe that's redundant, need to check). Wait, maybe I need to rephrase that. 

Wait, in the example provided, the user included a question about the two main resources used to measure complexity, which is time and storage. So that's one. Then another question about the measure of a problem's difficulty, which is the resources needed. Then another about the method to quantify resources, which is mathematical models. 

I need to ensure that each question is unique and not repeating the same topic. Let me check again. 

Yes, the 10 questions should cover different aspects: classification, role, resources, terms, measure, methods, related fields, distinction between fields, specific problem (P vs NP), and the field that analyzes a specific algorithm's resources. 

I think that's covered. Now, I need to phrase each question in Portuguese, ensuring they are clear and answerable with the correct short answers. Also, check that the answers are within 10 words and based on the context. 

Let me list them out again:

1. What is the main focus of computational complexity theory? 
Answer: classifying computational problems by resource usage.

2. What is the practical role of computational complexity theory? 
Answer: determining the limits on what computers can do.

3. What are the two main resources used to measure complexity? 
Answer: time and storage.

4. What is the term for a task solvable by a computer? 
Answer: computational problem.

5. What determines the difficulty of a computational problem? 
Answer: the resources needed for its solution.

6. What method is used to quantify computational resources? 
Answer: mathematical models of computation.

7. What is the role of computational complexity theory in determining practical limits? 
Answer: determining the limits on what computers can do.

Wait, that's the same as question 2. Oops, need to avoid repetition. Let me adjust. Maybe the seventh question could be about the key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory. 

8. What is the key distinction between analysis of algorithms and computational complexity theory? 
Answer: analysis focuses on specific algorithms, while complexity focuses on problem classification.

Then, the ninth question could be about the field that analyzes the resources of a specific algorithm. 

9. What field analyzes the resources of a specific algorithm? 
Answer: analysis of algorithms.

Finally, the tenth question about the P vs NP problem. 

10. Which problem is part of computational complexity theory? 
Answer: P vs NP problem.

I think that's 10 unique questions. Now, translate these into Portuguese, ensuring the answers are accurate and concise. Also, check for any possible overlaps or errors. Once done, format them into the CSV with the correct structure.
</think>

```csv
Question,Answer
Qual é o foco principal da teoria da complexidade computacional?,"Classificar problemas computacionais com base no uso de recursos."
Qual é o papel prático da teoria da complexidade computacional?,"Determinar os limites práticos do que as máquinas podem fazer."
Quais são os dois recursos principais usados para medir a complexidade?,"Tempo e armazenamento."
Qual é o termo para uma tarefa que pode ser resolvida por uma máquina?,"Problema computacional."
O que determina a dificuldade de um problema computacional?,"Os recursos necessários para sua solução."
Qual método é usado para quantificar recursos computacionais?,"Modelos matemáticos de computação."
Qual é a diferença fundamental entre a análise de algoritmos e a teoria da complexidade computacional?,"A análise de algoritmos foca em algoritmos específicos, enquanto a complexidade estuda a classificação de problemas."
Qual é o campo que analisa os recursos de um algoritmo específico?,"Análise de algoritmos."
Qual problema está associado à teoria da complexidade computacional?,"Problema P vs NP."
Quais são os campos próximos à teoria da complexidade computacional?,"Análise de algoritmos e teoria da computabilidade."
```