<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV lines based on the given context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context. The Scottish Parliament is the devolved legislature of Scotland, located in Edinburgh. It has 129 MSPs, elected through a mix of constituency and list systems. The first meeting was in 1999 after the 1997 referendum. The Scotland Act 1998 defined its powers, and subsequent acts like 2012 and 2016 expanded them. The UK Internal Market Act 2020 aims to limit its powers.

Now, looking at the facts provided, they mention various constituencies, electoral regions, parties, and positions related to the Scottish Parliament. For example, "Aberdeen Donside (Scottish Parliament constituency) possui nome parlamentar Scottish Parliament" and similar entries. Also, there are mentions of the Presiding Officer, the First Minister, and the location in Edinburgh.

I need to create questions that are varied and cover different aspects: history, structure, powers, elections, key figures, and maybe some specific constituencies or regions. Each question should have a unique answer derived from the context or facts.

Let me brainstorm some possible questions:

1. When was the first meeting of the Scottish Parliament after devolution?
2. What act specified the powers of the Scottish Parliament?
3. What is the location of the Scottish Parliament?
4. How many members are in the Scottish Parliament?
5. What is the role of the Presiding Officer?
6. Which party has the most seats in the Scottish Parliament?
7. When was the last general election for the Scottish Parliament?
8. What is the name of the leader of the Scottish Parliament?
9. What is the name of the constituency that includes Aberdeen Donside?
10. What is the role of the UK Parliament regarding the Scottish Parliament?

I need to check if these questions are based on the given context and facts. The answer to the first question is 12 May 1999. The second is the Scotland Act 1998. The location is Edinburgh, Scotland. The number of members is 129. The Presiding Officer is the leader. The main party is the Scottish National Party. The last election was May 2021. The leader is Alison Johnstone. The constituency is Aberdeen Donside. The UK Parliament can amend the Scottish Parliament's powers.

Wait, but some of these might be too straightforward. Let me ensure each question is unique and based on the provided facts. Also, the answer should be concise, under 10 words. Let me check the example given in the instructions. For example, "When was the first meeting of the new Parliament took place?" the answer is "12 May 1999." So, I need to make sure the answers are accurate and directly from the context or facts.

Another point: the facts mention "Scottish Parliament está localizado em Scotland" which is the location. Also, "Scottish Parliament possui líder Alison Johnstone" for the leader. The last election is 6 May 2021. The Scotland Act 1998 is the one that specified the powers.

I need to avoid repetition. Let me make sure each question is different. Also, check that all answers are within the facts provided. For example, "Which act defined the powers of the Scottish Parliament?" answer is "Scotland Act 1998." "What is the role of the UK Parliament regarding the Scottish Parliament?" answer is "can amend its powers."

I think that's a good start. Now, I'll structure each CSV line with the question and answer, making sure they are in the correct format and meet the requirements.
</think>

```csv
When was the first meeting of the Scottish Parliament after devolution? 12 May 1999
Which act specified the powers of the Scottish Parliament? Scotland Act 1998
Where is the Scottish Parliament located? Edinburgh, Scotland
How many members are in the Scottish Parliament? 129
What is the role of the Presiding Officer? Leader of the Scottish Parliament
Which party has the most seats in the Scottish Parliament? Scottish National Party
When was the last general election for the Scottish Parliament? 6 May 2021
What is the name of the leader of the Scottish Parliament? Alison Johnstone
What is the name of the constituency that includes Aberdeen Donside? Aberdeen Donside
What is the role of the UK Parliament regarding the Scottish Parliament? Can amend its powers
```