<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers related to the IPCC based on the provided context. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly. The text explains that the IPCC is an intergovernmental body under the UN, established by WMO and UNEP in 1988. It has 195 member states, works with three working groups and a task force, and publishes assessment reports. It also mentions the Nobel Prize, the Paris Agreement, and some key figures like Bert Bolin and Rajendra Pachauri.

First, I should list out the key points from the context. The main facts include the organization's parent body (UN), founders (WMO and UNEP), establishment year (1988), location (Geneva), member states, working groups, reports, Nobel Prize, Paris Agreement, and some notable people.

Now, I need to create questions that are varied and cover different aspects. Let me think of different angles: what is the full name, what organization it's part of, when was it established, who founded it, where is the secretariat, how many members, what are the working groups, what does it do, who is the leader, and maybe when certain events happened.

I need to make sure each question has a unique answer and that the answers are concise, up to 10 words. Also, check that the questions don't repeat the same topic. Let me start drafting:

1. What is the full name of the organization that the IPCC is part of? (Answer: United Nations)
2. Which organizations established the IPCC in 1988? (Answer: WMO and UNEP)
3. When was the IPCC established? (Answer: 1988)
4. Where is the IPCC's secretariat located? (Answer: Geneva, Switzerland)
5. How many member states does the IPCC have? (Answer: 195)
6. What are the three working groups of the IPCC? (Answer: three working groups)
7. What does the IPCC do? (Answer: examines climate change science)
8. Who is the current president of the IPCC? (Answer: Hoesung Lee)
9. What is the name of the Nobel Prize shared by the IPCC? (Answer: Nobel Peace Prize)
10. When was the Paris Agreement influenced by the IPCC? (Answer: 2015)

Wait, but the example in the user's prompt has a question about the president and the answer is Hoesung Lee. Also, there's a mention of the sixth assessment cycle. I need to ensure that all answers are based on the context. Let me check again.

The context says the IPCC is part of the UN, established by WMO and UNEP in 1988, has a secretariat in Geneva, 195 members, three working groups, reports on climate change, Nobel Prize in 2007 with Al Gore, and the Paris Agreement in 2015. Also, the current president is Hoesung Lee, and the first was Bert Bolin. The sixth assessment cycle is from 2015 to 2023.

So, the questions should be adjusted to fit these points. Let me make sure each answer is accurate. Also, some answers might need to be more specific. For example, the answer to "What is the full name of the organization that the IPCC is part of?" is "United Nations". The answer to "What is the name of the Nobel Prize shared by the IPCC?" is "Nobel Peace Prize".

I need to check for any possible mistakes. Also, the user's example includes a question about the president, so that's covered. Another point is the sixth assessment cycle's start in 2015. But the answer should be concise. Maybe the answer for when the sixth cycle started is "2015".

Let me compile all the questions and answers, making sure they are unique and based on the context. That should give me 10 entries.
</think>

```csv
What is the full name of the organization that the IPCC is part of?;United Nations
Which organizations established the IPCC in 1988?;World Meteorological Organization and United Nations Environment Programme
When was the IPCC established?;1988
Where is the IPCC's secretariat located?;Geneva, Switzerland
How many member states does the IPCC have?;195
What are the three working groups of the IPCC?;three working groups
What does the IPCC do?;examines climate change science
Who is the current president of the IPCC?;Hoesung Lee
What is the name of the Nobel Prize shared by the IPCC?;Nobel Peace Prize
When was the Paris Agreement influenced by the IPCC?;2015
```