<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 pairs of questions and answers in CSV format based on the given context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context provided. The main topic here is civil disobedience, which is defined as the active refusal to obey certain laws, often nonviolently. The example given includes references to historical events and figures like Henry David Thoreau, Susan B. Anthony, Saad Zaghloul, and Mahatma Gandhi. The facts provided list various events and movements associated with civil disobedience, such as the Egyptian Revolution of 1919, the civil rights movement in the US, and others.

First, I need to make sure that each question is unique and covers different aspects of civil disobedience. The answers should be concise, up to 10 words, and directly inferable from the context. Let me brainstorm possible questions and their answers.

Looking at the example, questions like "What is the term for refusing to obey unjust laws?" have answers like "civil disobedience." I should avoid repeating similar questions. Also, the examples given in the facts include events like the 2004 Orange Revolution in Ukraine, the 1919 Egyptian Revolution, the civil rights movement in the US, etc. I can use these as examples.

I need to ensure that each question is about a specific instance or aspect. For example, asking about the origin of the term, the key figure who popularized it, examples of historical events, and the purpose or method of civil disobedience. Also, the answer should be short and accurate.

Let me list possible questions:

1. What is the term for refusing to obey unjust laws?
2. Who popularized the term "civil disobedience" in the US?
3. What movement in the US used civil disobedience in the 1960s?
4. What was the name of the 1919 Egyptian revolution against British occupation?
5. Which country had the 2004 Orange Revolution?
6. What is the main goal of civil disobedience?
7. What is an example of a modern movement using civil disobedience?
8. What is the definition of civil disobedience according to the text?
9. Which historical figure is associated with the concept of civil disobedience?
10. What is the primary method of civil disobedience?

Now, I need to check if these questions are based on the context provided. The first question is directly from the definition. The second question refers to Henry David Thoreau. The third is about the civil rights movement. The fourth is the Egyptian Revolution of 1919. The fifth is Ukraine. The sixth is about resisting unjust laws. The seventh could be the 2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests. The eighth is the definition given in the context. The ninth is Thoreau again. The tenth is nonviolent resistance.

Wait, the answer for the tenth question should be "nonviolent resistance" as per the context. Also, I need to make sure that each answer is within 10 words. Let me check each answer length.

1. Civil disobedience (4 words)
2. Henry David Thoreau (4)
3. Civil rights movement (4)
4. Egyptian Revolution of 1919 (5)
5. Ukraine (2)
6. Resisting unjust laws (4)
7. 2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests (6)
8. Active refusal to obey unjust laws (6)
9. Henry David Thoreau (4)
10. Nonviolent resistance (3)

That seems okay. Now, I need to ensure that each question is unique and not repeating the same event or figure. The answer for the fourth question is the Egyptian Revolution of 1919, which is mentioned in the facts. The answer for the seventh is the 2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests. The answer for the eighth is the definition from the context. The answer for the ninth is Thoreau again, but that's acceptable as it's a key figure.

I should also check if all the answers are present in the facts. The facts include the Egyptian Revolution of 1919, the Orange Revolution in Ukraine, the civil rights movement, and the 2019 Montenegrin protests. The definition is in the context. So all these answers are valid.

Now, I can structure the CSV with each question and answer, ensuring that the answers are in the correct format. Also, the user specified that the CSV should have the questions and answers separated by a comma, with each line representing a pair. Let me make sure that the answers are accurate and concise.
</think>

question,answer  
What is the term for refusing to obey unjust laws?,"civil disobedience"  
Who popularized the term "civil disobedience" in the US?,"Henry David Thoreau"  
What movement in the US used civil disobedience in the 1960s?,"civil rights movement"  
What was the name of the 1919 Egyptian revolution against British occupation?,"Egyptian Revolution of 1919"  
Which country had the 2004 Orange Revolution?,"Ukraine"  
What is the main goal of civil disobedience?,"resisting unjust laws"  
What is an example of a modern movement using civil disobedience?,"2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests"  
What is the definition of civil disobedience according to the text?,"active refusal to obey unjust laws"  
Which historical figure is associated with the concept of civil disobedience?,"Henry David Thoreau"  
What is the primary method of civil disobedience?,"nonviolent resistance"