<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers related to the Normans based on the provided context. Let me start by reading through the context carefully to extract key facts.

First, the Normans originated from the intermingling of Norse Vikings and West Franks and Gallo-Romans. The term Norman comes from the French "Normands" and Latin "Nortmanni/Normanni." The first Norman identity was formed in the 10th century. They were known for their martial spirit and Catholic piety. The Duchy of Normandy was a significant fief of medieval France. Rollo, a Viking leader, swore fealty to King Charles III in 911, leading to the legitimacy of Norse settlements. The Normans had a major impact on Europe, including the conquest of England and Sicily. The Channel Islands are considered remnants of the Duchy. Their language, Old Norman, evolved into Norman French. The Hauteville family was Norman. The Normans contributed to the Reconquista and Crusader states. The legacy includes regional languages and cultural influences.

Now, I need to create varied questions. Let me list possible topics: origin, language, identity formation, key events, leaders, military impact, religious aspects, cultural contributions, historical events, and the Duchy's status.

For example:
1. Origin of the Normans: mix of Norse and Frankish.
2. Language: Old Norman, Norman French.
3. Identity formation: 10th century.
4. Key event: Rollo's pledge in 911.
5. Leaders: Rollo, William the Conqueror.
6. Military: conquests in England, Sicily, Iberia.
7. Religion: Catholic piety.
8. Cultural: Romanesque architecture.
9. Duchy's status: part of France, Channel Islands.
10. Historical impact: influence on European history.

Check if these are covered in the context. Also, ensure each question is unique and answers are concise. Avoid repeating the same topic. Make sure the answers are accurate based on the provided facts. Let me structure each question and answer pair, ensuring they are in the correct format.
</think>

question,answer
What were the origins of the Normans?,"The Normans originated from the intermingling of Norse Vikings and West Franks, along with Gallo-Romans, in the early medieval period."
What is the linguistic heritage of the Normans?,"The Normans developed Old Norman as a language, which evolved into Norman French, a Romance language with roots in Latin."
When did the first distinct Norman identity emerge?,"The first distinct Norman identity was formed in the 10th century, particularly after the Viking settlements in France."
What significant event in 911 marked the legitimacy of Norse settlements?,"In 911, Rollo, a Viking leader, swore fealty to King Charles III of France, legitimizing Norse settlements in Normandy."
Who was a pivotal leader in the formation of the Norman identity?,"Rollo, a Viking chieftain, played a key role in establishing the Norman identity through his pledge to King Charles III."
What were the Normans known for in terms of cultural and military contributions?,"The Normans were renowned for their martial prowess, Catholic piety, and military conquests, including the Norman Conquest of England and the Crusader states in the Holy Land."
How did the Normans influence European history?,"The Normans left a lasting legacy through their military campaigns, architectural styles (e.g., Romanesque), and cultural contributions, shaping medieval Europe's political and social landscape."
What is the significance of the Channel Islands in Norman history?,"The Channel Islands are considered remnants of the Duchy of Normandy, reflecting the Norman presence in the region and their historical ties to France."
What role did the Hauteville family play in Norman history?,"The Hauteville family was a prominent Norman noble family that played a key role in the expansion and consolidation of Norman influence in southern France and beyond."
What was the relationship between the Normans and the Church?,"The Normans were closely associated with the Catholic Church, adopting Christian practices and contributing to its development in Europe, particularly through their participation in the Crusades."