<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs in Portuguese based on the provided context, triples, and examples. Let's start by understanding the context given. The main topic is economic inequality, discussing income and wealth inequality, the Gini coefficient, Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index, effects of globalization, and the impact of inequality on economic growth and social stability.

Looking at the triples, there are various entities linked to economic inequality, like books, movements, and scholars. However, the user examples focus more on statistics and specific data points, even though the context here doesn't include numbers like those in the Oxfam examples. Wait, the context here is different; it's more about the general concepts and effects rather than specific statistics. So I need to make sure the questions are based on the information in the context provided, not the Oxfam examples from the user's initial message.

First, I should extract key points from the context. The context mentions income inequality measured by income distribution, wealth inequality by wealth distribution. It talks about inequality between countries and within countries. Globalization reducing global inequality between nations but increasing within nations. Income inequality between nations peaked in the 1970s, with convergence in income levels across countries, now most people in middle-income countries. Inequality within nations has risen, especially in advanced countries. 90% of advanced economies saw increased income inequality, over 70% with Gini coefficients increasing by more than two points. Research links inequality to political and social instability, revolution, democratic breakdown, civil conflict. Inequality hinders economic growth and macroeconomic stability. Land and human capital inequality reduce growth more than income inequality. Inequality is central to economic policy debates, with taxes and transfers decreasing income inequality by a third, mainly through public social spending.

Now, I need to form questions based on these points. Let me brainstorm some questions:

1. What are the two main types of economic inequality mentioned?
   Answer: Income inequality and wealth inequality.

2. What measure is used to assess income inequality?
   Answer: The Gini coefficient.

3. How has globalization affected inequality between and within nations?
   Answer: Reduced global inequality between nations, increased within nations.

4. When did income inequality between nations peak?
   Answer: In the 1970s.

5. What percentage of advanced economies saw an increase in income inequality in the last 30 years?
   Answer: Close to 90 percent.

6. What effect does economic inequality have on economic growth?
   Answer: It hinders economic growth and macroeconomic stability.

7. What is the role of taxes and transfers in reducing income inequality?
   Answer: They decrease income inequality by one-third, mainly through public social spending.

8. Which type of inequality reduces growth more: land and human capital inequality or income inequality?
   Answer: Land and human capital inequality.

9. What is the Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index?
   Answer: A statistic composite index that takes inequality into account.

10. What is the main focus of economic policy debates regarding inequality?
    Answer: The impact of inequality on economic growth and social stability, with policies to address it.

Now, I need to ensure these questions are in Portuguese and the answers are concise. Also, check if the context supports each question. For example, the context does mention the Inequality-adjusted Human Development Index, so that's valid. The Gini coefficient is mentioned as a measure. The effects on economic growth and the role of taxes are all covered.

I should avoid any mention of specific data not present in the context, like the Oxfam examples. The user's initial examples had specific percentages and names, but the current context is more general. So the questions here should reflect the general concepts from the context provided.

Let me translate the questions and answers into Portuguese, making sure they are accurate and concise.
</think>

```csv
"Qual são os dois principais tipos de desigualdade econômica mencionados no contexto?","A desigualdade de renda e a desigualdade de riqueza."
"Qual medida é utilizada para avaliar a desigualdade de renda?","O coeficiente de Gini."
"Como a globalização afetou a desigualdade entre e dentro das nações?","Reduziu a desigualdade global entre nações, mas aumentou a desigualdade dentro das nações."
"Quando a desigualdade de renda entre nações atingiu seu pico?","Na década de 1970."
"Qual porcentagem de economias avançadas viu um aumento na desigualdade de renda nos últimos 30 anos?","Próximo a 90%."
"Qual é o efeito da desigualdade econômica no crescimento econômico?","Ela prejudica o crescimento econômico e a estabilidade macroeconômica."
"Qual o papel das taxas e transferências na redução da desigualdade de renda?","Elas reduzem a desigualdade de renda em um terço, principalmente por meio de gastos sociais públicos."
"Qual tipo de desigualdade reduz o crescimento mais: desigualdade de terra e capital humano ou desigualdade de renda?","A desigualdade de terra e capital humano."
"O que é o Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano Ajustado à Desigualdade?","Um índice estatístico composto que leva em consideração a desigualdade."
"Qual é o foco principal das discussões sobre políticas econômicas relacionadas à desigualdade?","O impacto da desigualdade no crescimento econômico e na estabilidade social, com políticas para abordar o problema."
```