<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided data about Jacksonville, Florida. Let me start by reviewing the information given.

First, the data mentions that Jacksonville is a location in Florida, with details like population, population density, rank, and some historical and geographical information. There are also mentions of other entities linked to Jacksonville, such as the St. Johns River, the Duval County, and historical events like the founding of Fort Caroline.

Looking at the examples provided, the questions are varied: some about population, others about geography, history, and even specific facts like the river or the founder. The answers are derived directly from the data given.

I need to ensure that each question is unique and based on the data. Let me check the data again for possible points:

1. Population and rank: The population is 1,733,937 and rank 12th.
2. Population density: 490.63 km².
3. Established title: "Founded" in 1968? Wait, the data says "establishedTitle 'Founded'". But the example question about the consolidation year is 1968. Maybe that's the year when it became part of Duval County.
4. The St. Johns River is mentioned as a river near Jacksonville.
5. Fort Caroline is a French colony founded in 1564.
6. The Timucua people inhabited the area before the French.
7. Andrew Jackson is the historical figure after whom the city is named.
8. The city's nickname is "Jax", "The River City", etc.
9. The nearest city to the Yellow Bluff Fort is Jacksonville.
10. The population in 2010 is given as 1,345,596.

Wait, in the data, under the Jacksonville entry, there's a "nSearch" which is "Category:Jacksonville, Florida". But that's not useful. Also, the "febLowF" is 46.1, but that's a temperature, not sure if relevant.

So possible questions:

- What is the population of Jacksonville?
- What is the population rank of Jacksonville?
- What is the population density of Jacksonville?
- When was Jacksonville consolidated into Duval County?
- What is the name of the river near Jacksonville?
- What is the nickname of Jacksonville?
- What is the name of the historical colony in 1564?
- What were the native inhabitants of the area?
- Who is the historical figure after whom the city is named?
- What is the population of Jacksonville in 2010?

Wait, the example includes a question about the distance between Jacksonville and Miami, but the data doesn't mention that. So maybe that's not possible. The data also mentions the nearest city to the Yellow Bluff Fort, which is Jacksonville, but that's a bit of a trick question.

Let me check if there's any other info. The data mentions the St. Johns River, the Duval County, the population in 2010, the rank, the population density, the nickname, the historical colony, the native people, the consolidation year, and the nearest city to the fort.

So, I can create 10 questions based on these points. Let me make sure each question is distinct and answerable from the data. Also, avoid repeating the same information as the examples, but maybe some of the examples are similar. The user provided examples, so I should follow their structure but ensure the new ones are different.

Let me draft the questions:

1. What is the population of Jacksonville?
2. What is the population rank of Jacksonville in the United States?
3. What is the population density of Jacksonville?
4. When was Jacksonville consolidated into Duval County?
5. What is the name of the river near Jacksonville?
6. What is the nickname of Jacksonville?
7. What is the name of the historical colony established in 1564?
8. Who is the historical figure after whom the city is named?
9. What is the population of Jacksonville in 2010?
10. What is the nearest city to the Yellow Bluff Fort?

That's 10. Let me check if these are all covered in the data:

Yes, the population, rank, density, consolidation year, river name, nickname, colony name, historical figure, 2010 population, and nearest city to the fort.

I should format them as per the examples, with the answer in quotes. Also, make sure the answers are accurate based on the data provided. For example, the consolidation year is 1968, as per the example. The population in 2010 is given as 1,345,596. The nearest city to the Yellow Bluff Fort is Jacksonville, but that might be a bit of a trick question. However, the data says that the Yellow Bluff Fort's nearest city is Jacksonville.

So, these should be valid.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a população de Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "1.733.937"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o ranking de população de Jacksonville nos Estados Unidos?",
    "resposta": "12º"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a densidade populacional de Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "490,63 hab/km²"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que ano Jacksonville foi consolidada no Condado de Duval?",
    "resposta": "1968."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do rio que passa perto de Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "St. Johns"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os apelidos de Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "\"Jax\", \"The River City\", The Bold New City of the South"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o nome da colônia francesa fundada em 1564?",
    "resposta": "Fort Caroline"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é a figura histórica que deu nome a Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "Andrew Jackson"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual era a população de Jacksonville em 2010?",
    "resposta": "1.345.596"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a cidade mais próxima à Forte Yellow Bluff?",
    "resposta": "Jacksonville"
  }
]