<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 pairs of questions and answers based on the given context and facts about the 1973 oil crisis. The key points here are that the questions must be varied, cover different aspects, and the answers must be directly from the provided content.

First, I need to thoroughly understand the context. The 1973 oil crisis started in October 1973 when OPEC (specifically the Arab members) imposed an embargo on countries supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. The embargo targeted several nations, including the US, Japan, and others. The oil price skyrocketed from $3 to $12 per barrel, leading to a global economic crisis. It's known as the first oil shock, followed by the second in 1979.

Now, looking at the facts provided, there's a lot of RDF data, but the key info is in the context. The user also provided examples, which can guide the structure. Each question should be unique, not repeating similar ones. Let's brainstorm possible questions.

1. When did the 1973 oil crisis begin? (Answer: October 1973)
2. Which organization imposed the embargo? (Answer: OPEC, specifically the Arab members)
3. Which countries were initially targeted? (Answer: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US)
4. When did the embargo end? (Answer: March 1974)
5. How much did the oil price increase? (Answer: from $3 to $12)
6. What was the name given to this crisis? (Answer: First oil shock)
7. What was the subsequent crisis called? (Answer: Second oil shock in 1979)
8. Which countries were later added to the embargo? (Answer: Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa)
9. What was the effect of the embargo? (Answer: Global economic crisis, short and long-term impacts)
10. What was the reason behind the embargo? (Answer: Countries supporting Israel during Yom Kippur War)

Wait, need to check the context again. The context mentions the embargo was directed at nations seen as supporters of Israel during the Yom Kippur War. Also, the expansion to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. The price increase is mentioned, and the names of the crises.

I need to ensure each question is distinct. For example, one about the start date, another about the embargo's targets, another about the price change, another about the names of the crises, another about the end date, another about the reason, another about the expansion, another about the impact, and maybe one about the economic effects.

Also, check the examples given. They have questions about when it started, price in March 1974, when the second crisis was, another term, who declared the embargo, why European countries and Japan separated, how Nixon negotiated, when Kissinger negotiated the withdrawal, when the embargo was lifted, and when the US left Bretton Woods. But the user's context doesn't mention the Bretton Woods part, so I shouldn't include that. The examples might have some inaccuracies, but the user's context doesn't have that info, so I need to stick strictly to the provided context.

So, avoiding questions not covered in the context. For example, the example about Nixon's negotiation is not in the context, so I shouldn't include that. The user's context doesn't mention Nixon or Kissinger's specific actions beyond the embargo and the price changes. So I need to make sure all answers are directly from the context.

Let me recheck the context:

- OPAEP (OPEC) declared the embargo in October 1973.
- Targeted countries: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US, later Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa.
- Price increased from $3 to $12 by March 1974.
- Called the first oil shock, followed by the second in 1979.

So, possible questions:

1. When did the 1973 oil crisis begin? (Answer: October 1973)
2. Which organization imposed the embargo? (Answer: OPEC)
3. Which countries were initially targeted by the embargo? (Answer: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US)
4. When did the embargo end? (Answer: March 1974)
5. How much did the oil price increase? (Answer: from $3 to $12 per barrel)
6. What was the name given to this crisis? (Answer: First oil shock)
7. What was the subsequent crisis called? (Answer: Second oil shock in 1979)
8. Which countries were added to the embargo later? (Answer: Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa)
9. What was the reason for the embargo? (Answer: Countries supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War)
10. What was the impact of the embargo? (Answer: Global economic crisis, short and long-term effects)

Now, phrasing these into clear questions. Ensure that the answers are exact as per the context. For example, the answer to the first question is "outubro de 1973," as per the example. Similarly, the price increase is "quase US $ 12" in the example, but the context says "quase US $ 12" or "US $ 12"? The context says "quase US $ 12" (almost $12), but the example uses "quase US $ 12." So need to check that.

Also, the answer for the second question in the example is "membros da Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes," which is OPEC's Arab members. The context says "membros da Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes" (members of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporters). Wait, the context says "Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes" which is OPEP (OPEC) but specifically the Arab members. So the answer should be "membros da Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes."

So, adjusting the questions accordingly. Let's make sure each answer is directly from the context. For example, the answer to "What was the name given to this crisis?" is "primeiro choque do" as in the example, but the context says "chamada o primeiro choque do" (called the first shock). So the answer would be "primeiro choque do" as in the example.

I need to ensure that all answers are accurate based on the context provided. Let me go through each question again.

1. When did the crisis begin? Answer: October 1973.
2. Which organization? Answer: OPEC (Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes).
3. Initial targets: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US.
4. End date: March 1974.
5. Price increase: from $3 to $12.
6. Name: First oil shock.
7. Subsequent crisis: Second oil shock in 1979.
8. Added countries: Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa.
9. Reason: Countries supporting Israel during Yom Kippur War.
10. Impact: Global economic crisis with short and long-term effects.

Now, phrasing these into questions in Portuguese. The examples use "Quando começou..." so similar structure.

1. "Quando começou a crise do petróleo de 1973?" – "outubro de 1973"
2. "Quem proclamou o embargo do petróleo?" – "membros da Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes"
3. "Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do boicote?" – "Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos"
4. "Em que data o embargo foi levantado?" – "março de 1974"
5. "Qual foi o aumento no preço do petróleo até março de 1974?" – "de US $ 3 para quase US $ 12"
6. "Qual foi o outro termo usado para descrever essa crise?" – "primeiro choque do"
7. "Como foi chamada a crise subsequente?" – "segundo choque do"
8. "Quais países foram adicionados ao boicote posteriormente?" – "Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul"
9. "Por que o embargo foi imposto?" – "porque os países apoiavam Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur"
10. "Quais foram os efeitos do embargo?" – "uma crise econômica global com impactos de curto e longo prazo"

Now, check for uniqueness and that each answer is in the context. The answer to question 10 is "crise econômica global com impactos de curto e longo prazo," which is implied in the context's "causou uma crise econômica global" (caused a global economic crisis). The example mentions "impactos de curto e longo prazo," which might be inferred but not explicitly stated. However, the context does mention "impactos de curto e longo prazo" in the example, but in the actual context provided, it's not explicitly there. Wait, the user's context says "causou uma crise econômica global" (caused a global economic crisis), but the example includes "impactos de curto e longo prazo." Since the user's context doesn't mention short and long-term effects, maybe that's an example's addition. However, the user's instruction says to base answers strictly on the provided context. Therefore, I need to adjust that.

The context says: "causou uma crise econômica global" (caused a global economic crisis), so the answer should be "uma crise econômica global." But the example has "impactos de curto e longo prazo." Since the context doesn't mention that, I should avoid that. So, the answer for question 10 would be "uma crise econômica global."

Therefore, adjusting the questions to ensure all answers are strictly from the context. Let me rephrase question 10 to "Quais foram os efeitos do embargo?" with answer "uma crise econômica global."

Now, verifying each answer against the context:

- The crisis began in October 1973: Yes.
- OPEC members: Yes.
- Initial targets: Yes.
- End date: March 1974: Yes.
- Price increase: Yes.
- Name: First oil shock: Yes.
- Subsequent crisis: Second oil shock in 1979: Yes.
- Added countries: Yes.
- Reason: Yes.
- Effects: Yes.

This should cover all 10 pairs without overlapping and using the provided context.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando começou a crise do petróleo de 1973?",
    "resposta": "outubro de 1973,"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem proclamou o embargo do petróleo?",
    "resposta": "membros da Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do boicote?",
    "resposta": "Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que data o embargo foi levantado?",
    "resposta": "março de 1974,"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o aumento no preço do petróleo até março de 1974?",
    "resposta": "de US $ 3 para quase US $ 12"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o outro termo usado para descrever essa crise?",
    "resposta": "primeiro choque do"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como foi chamada a crise subsequente?",
    "resposta": "segundo choque do"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram adicionados ao boicote posteriormente?",
    "resposta": "Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Por que o embargo foi imposto?",
    "resposta": "porque os países apoiavam Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram os efeitos do embargo?",
    "resposta": "uma crise econômica global"
  }
]