<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about the University of Chicago. Let me start by carefully reading through the context and the list of facts to identify key points.

First, the context mentions the university's structure, including its schools like the Pritzker School of Medicine and Booth School of Business. It also talks about notable alumni and faculty, research contributions like the Manhattan Project, and achievements such as Nobel Prizes and MacArthur Grants. The facts list numerous individuals affiliated with the university, along with the total number of students, rankings, and other specifics.

I need to make sure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let's brainstorm possible questions:

1. Number of students: The context says 5,971 undergrad and total 16,016, but the facts mention 18,452. Wait, there's a discrepancy here. Which one is correct? The facts list "University of Chicago possui número de estudantes 18452" and "University of Chicago tem número de estudantes 18452". So the correct total is 18,452. The context might have outdated info. So the question could be about the total number of students.

2. Nobel Prize winners affiliated: The context says 98 as of 2018. That's a key fact to include.

3. Notable schools/professional schools: Mentioned in the context, like Booth, Law, Harris. A question could ask for examples.

4. Research contributions: The Manhattan Project and Chicago Pile-1. A question about the first self-sustaining nuclear reaction.

5. US News ranking: The facts state "University of Chicago possui ranking USNWR mundial 15". So a question about its global ranking.

6. Centers or facilities: Fermi Lab, Argonne. A question about the research facilities administered by the university.

7. Notable alumni: The context lists many, but the facts have specific people like Carl Sagan, Margaret Gardel. However, the context mentions prominent alumni, so a general question might not be specific enough. Maybe ask about a specific example.

8. MacArthur Grant recipients: The context says 34 faculty and 17 alumni. A question could ask the total number.

9. The Barack Obama Presidential Center: The context mentions it's estimated to be completed in 2021, housed in the university. A question about the center's location.

10. Number of faculty members with MacArthur Grants: The context states 34 faculty, so the answer would be 34.

Wait, let me check the facts again. The facts list many individuals with alma mater or work at the university. For example, Carl Sagan, Margaret Gardel, etc. But including specific people might not be necessary unless the question is about them. However, the context mentions notable alumni, so maybe a question about a notable alumnus like Carl Sagan, but the facts list him as having alma mater. Alternatively, maybe the question can be about a specific example of a notable alumnus.

Also, the university press: The context mentions it's the largest university press in the US. A question could ask about that.

But I need to make sure each question is distinct and covers different aspects. Let me list possible questions:

1. Quantos alunos a Universidade de Chicago tem no total?
Resposta: 18.452

2. Quantos ganhadores do Prêmio Nobel estiveram associados à Universidade de Chicago até 2018?
Resposta: 98

3. Quais são exemplos de escolas profissionais da Universidade de Chicago?
Resposta: Escola de Medicina Pritzker, Escola de Negócios Booth, Faculdade de Direito, Escola Harris de Estudos de Políticas Públicas.

4. Qual foi a contribuição da Universidade de Chicago para o Projeto Manhattan?
Resposta: Desenvolvimento da primeira reação nuclear autossustentável (Chicago Pile-1).

5. Qual é o ranking global da Universidade de Chicago segundo a US News?
Resposta: 15º lugar.

6. Quais laboratórios de pesquisa são administrados pela Universidade de Chicago?
Resposta: Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory e Argonne National Laboratory.

7. Quantos membros do corpo docente da Universidade de Chicago receberam o Prêmio MacArthur "Genius Grant"?
Resposta: 34.

8. Onde está localizado o Centro Presidencial Barack Obama?
Resposta: Na Universidade de Chicago.

9. Qual é a maior editora universitária dos Estados Unidos abrigada na Universidade de Chicago?
Resposta: University of Chicago Press.

10. Quantos ex-alunos da Universidade de Chicago receberam o Prêmio MacArthur "Genius Grant"?
Resposta: 17.

Wait, the context says "34 membros do corpo docente e 17 ex-alunos receberam o prêmio MacArthur". So question 7 is about faculty, question 10 about alumni. That's two separate questions.

Also, the facts mention the university press, so question 9 is valid.

Now, check for duplicates. Each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let's make sure the answers are accurate based on the provided data.
</think>

```json
[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos alunos no total a Universidade de Chicago registra atualmente?",
    "resposta": "18.452"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos ganhadores do Prêmio Nobel estiveram associados à Universidade de Chicago até 2018?",
    "resposta": "98"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são exemplos de escolas profissionais da Universidade de Chicago?",
    "resposta": "Escola de Medicina Pritzker, Escola de Negócios Booth, Faculdade de Direito e Escola Harris de Estudos de Políticas Públicas."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual contribuição histórica da Universidade de Chicago está relacionada ao Projeto Manhattan?",
    "resposta": "Desenvolvimento da primeira reação nuclear autossustentável, conhecida como Chicago Pile-1."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o ranking global da Universidade de Chicago segundo a US News em 2023?",
    "resposta": "15º lugar."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais laboratórios de pesquisa são administrados pela Universidade de Chicago?",
    "resposta": "Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory e Argonne National Laboratory."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos membros do corpo docente da Universidade de Chicago receberam o Prêmio MacArthur 'Genius Grant'?",
    "resposta": "34"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Onde está localizado o Centro Presidencial Barack Obama?",
    "resposta": "Na Universidade de Chicago."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a maior editora universitária dos Estados Unidos abrigada na Universidade de Chicago?",
    "resposta": "University of Chicago Press."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos ex-alunos da Universidade de Chicago receberam o Prêmio MacArthur 'Genius Grant'?",
    "resposta": "17"
  }
]
```