<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the given context and facts about the Black Death. Let me start by thoroughly understanding the provided information.

First, the context mentions that the Black Death was the most devastating pandemic, killing 75-200 million in Eurasia, peaking in Europe 1347-1351. The causative agent is Yersinia pestis, causing bubonic, septicemic, and pneumonic plague. It originated in Central or East Asia, spread via the Silk Road to Crimea in 1343, then by rats on merchant ships to the Mediterranean and Europe. It killed 30-60% of Europe's population, reducing the world population from 475M to 350-375M. Recovery took 200 years, with some regions like Florence recovering only in the 19th century. The plague recurred until the early 20th century.

Now, looking at the facts, there are a lot of technical details: models used in wiki pages, specific dates (1346, April 2020), numbers like 75 million deaths, categories, images, and references to scholars like Ole Jørgen Benedictow. Also, mentions of the spread via rats and fleas, the bacterium Yersinia pestis, and the different forms of plague.

I need to create 10 unique questions, each with a correct answer from the context. Avoid repetition. Let me brainstorm possible questions:

1. Origin of the Black Death: The context says Asia Central or East, so the answer is "Ásia Central ou Ásia Oriental".
2. How it spread to Europe: Via the Silk Road to Crimea, then by rats on ships. Answer: "via a Rota da Seda e navios mercantes genoveses".
3. Causative agent: Yersinia pestis. Answer: "Yersinia pestis".
4. Forms of plague: Bubonic, septicemic, pneumonic. Answer: "bubónica, septicémica e pneumónica".
5. Death toll in Europe: 30-60%. Answer: "30% a 60% da população europeia".
6. Time to recover population: 200 years. Answer: "cerca de 200 anos".
7. When it recurred: Until early 20th century. Answer: "até o início do século XX".
8. Primary vector: Fleas on rats. Answer: "pulgas que viviam em ratos".
9. Date the Black Death started in Europe: 1347. Answer: "1347".
10. Impact on population: Reduced from 475M to 350-375M. Answer: "de 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões no século XIV".

Wait, need to check if all answers are directly from the context. For example, the context says "até o início do século XX" for recurring. Also, the date 1347 is mentioned as the peak in Europe. The population reduction is stated as 475M to 350-375M. The recovery time is 200 years. The origin is Asia Central or East. The spread via Silk Road to Crimea in 1343, then by ships. The bacterium is Yersinia pestis. The forms are bubonic, septicemic, pneumonic. The answer to the population toll is 30-60%. The primary vector is fleas on rats. 

I need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check for repetition. The examples given in the user's prompt had questions about origin, spread method, death toll, recovery time, duration, etc. I need to vary them. Let me make sure the answers are exact as per the context. For instance, the context says "até o início do século XX" for the recurrence, so the answer should be that. Also, the date of the Black Death in Europe is 1347-1351, but the context mentions "atingindo o pico na Europa entre os anos de 1347 e 1351". So the answer could be "entre 1347 e 1351". 

Another point: the context mentions "a Peste Negra foi o primeiro grande surto europeu de peste e a segunda pandemia da doença." So a question could be about the order of pandemics. But the facts don't mention that. Wait, the context says "a segunda pandemia da doença". So a question could be "Qual foi a posição da Peste Negra na história das pandemias?" Answer: "a segunda pandemia da doença".

But I need to check if that's in the context. Yes, the context says "a Peste Negra foi o primeiro grande surto europeu de peste e a segunda pandemia da doença." So that's a valid question.

Another fact: "Ole Jørgen Benedictow atua nas áreas Black Death" and "Ole Jørgen Benedictow atua na disciplina Black Death". So a question could be "Quem é Ole Jørgen Benedictow?" but the context doesn't specify his role, just that he's involved. However, the answer might not be in the context. So better avoid that.

Looking at the facts, there's a lot of technical terms, but the user's examples had questions based on the context, not the facts. So focus on the context.

Another point: the context says "a Peste Negra foi o primeiro grande surto europeu de peste e a segunda pandemia da doença." So a question could be "Qual foi o primeiro grande surto europeu de peste?" Answer: "a Peste Negra".

But the context says "a Peste Negra foi o primeiro grande surto europeu de peste e a segunda pandemia da doença." So the answer is "a Peste Negra".

Another possible question: "Quais foram as formas de peste causadas pela Yersinia pestis?" Answer: "bubônica, septicémica e pneumónica".

Also, the context mentions "a Peste Negra recorreu até o início do século XX." So the answer is "até o início do século XX".

I need to ensure that all answers are directly from the context. Let me verify each answer against the context.

Now, compiling the 10 questions and answers:

1. Where did the Black Death originate? Answer: "Ásia Central ou Ásia Oriental".
2. How did it spread to Europe? Answer: "via a Rota da Seda e navios mercantes genoveses".
3. What is the causative agent? Answer: "Yersinia pestis".
4. What are the forms of the plague? Answer: "bubónica, septicémica e pneumónica".
5. What percentage of Europe's population died? Answer: "30% a 60% da população europeia".
6. How long did it take for the population to recover? Answer: "cerca de 200 anos".
7. Until when did the plague recur? Answer: "até o início do século XX".
8. What is the primary vector? Answer: "pulgas que viviam em ratos".
9. When did the Black Death peak in Europe? Answer: "entre 1347 e 1351".
10. What was the impact on the global population? Answer: "de 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões no século XIV".

I think these are all covered in the context. Let me check again:

- Origin: Yes.
- Spread: Yes, via Silk Road to Crimea, then ships.
- Causative agent: Yes.
- Forms: Yes.
- Death toll: Yes.
- Recovery time: Yes.
- Recurrence: Yes.
- Vector: Yes.
- Peak years: Yes.
- Global population: Yes.

Looks good. Now, phrasing the questions in Portuguese as per the examples, ensuring clarity and that answers are concise.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "De onde se originou a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Ásia Central ou Ásia Oriental."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a Peste Negra chegou à Europa?",
    "resposta": "via a Rota da Seda e navios mercantes genoveses."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o agente causador da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Yersinia pestis."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são as formas da peste causadas pela Yersinia pestis?",
    "resposta": "bubônica, septicémica e pneumónica."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto da Peste Negra na população europeia?",
    "resposta": "30% a 60% da população europeia."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quanto tempo levou para a população se recuperar após a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "cerca de 200 anos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Até quando a Peste Negra recorreu?",
    "resposta": "até o início do século XX."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o principal vetor da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "pulgas que viviam em ratos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em quais anos a Peste Negra atingiu seu pico na Europa?",
    "resposta": "entre 1347 e 1351."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto da Peste Negra na população mundial?",
    "resposta": "de 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões no século XIV."
  }
]