<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly. The context talks about economic inequality, covering topics like income distribution, wealth distribution, Gini coefficient, Human Development Index adjusted for inequality, and concepts like equity, equality of outcomes, and equality of opportunities. It also mentions that globalization has reduced global inequality but increased within-country inequality.

Now, looking at the facts provided, there are a bunch of RDF triples linking various resources to "Economic_inequality". For example, books like "Capital and Ideology" and "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" are subjects related to economic inequality. There are also mentions of people like Branko Milanović and Richard Wilkinson who are associated with this topic. Additionally, there are some specific data points, like the Gini index and the Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index.

The user wants 10 pairs, each with a question and a correct answer, all in Portuguese. The questions need to be varied, covering different aspects of the content, and the answers must be explicitly or inferentially from the context. Also, no repetition of similar questions.

First, I'll list possible angles for questions:

1. Definitions: What is economic inequality?
2. Measures: Gini coefficient, HDI adjusted for inequality.
3. Causes: Factors contributing to economic inequality.
4. Effects: Impact of inequality on growth, globalization's role.
5. Examples: Specific data points from the facts (like the 1% wealth share).
6. Key figures: People or books related to the topic.
7. Concepts: Equity, equality of opportunities, etc.

Looking at the examples provided, they often use specific numbers or references to studies. However, the context here doesn't have exact numbers like the examples (e.g., 40%, 85 people, etc.), but there are mentions of the Gini coefficient, HDI adjusted, and some references to studies. The facts section has some data like "40%" in the examples, but in the actual context provided, there's no specific number mentioned. Wait, the context says "a desigualdade global (entre nações), aumentou a desigualdade dentro dos países." But no specific percentages. However, the facts section includes some data points, like "40%" in the examples, but those might be from external knowledge. Wait, the user's examples include questions about 40%, 85 people, etc., but in the actual context provided, there's no such data. So maybe I need to rely only on the given context and facts, not external knowledge.

Wait, the user's examples might be based on external data, but the current task is to generate based on the given context and facts. So I need to check the provided context and facts for any numbers or specific info.

Looking at the facts, there's a mention of "40%" in the examples, but in the actual context, the user's provided text doesn't have specific numbers. Wait, the context says "a desigualdade global (entre nações), aumentou a desigualdade dentro dos países." But no specific stats. The facts section includes some images and templates, but not numerical data. So perhaps the user expects me to generate based on the context's general info, not specific numbers. However, the examples have specific numbers, which might be from the user's prior knowledge. But since the current task is to use the provided context and facts, I need to avoid making up numbers unless they are in the context.

Wait, the user's examples might be illustrative, but in this case, the actual context doesn't have specific stats. So I need to form questions based on the information given.

So, possible questions:

1. What is the Gini coefficient used for?
2. What is the Human Development Index adjusted for inequality?
3. What are the main factors contributing to economic inequality?
4. How does globalization affect economic inequality?
5. Who are some key figures associated with the study of economic inequality?
6. What are the differences between income inequality and wealth inequality?
7. What are the concepts of equity, equality of outcomes, and equality of opportunities?
8. What is the role of the Gini coefficient in measuring inequality?
9. How does the Human Development Index adjusted for inequality differ from the standard HDI?
10. What are the implications of increasing economic inequality within countries?

But need to make sure the answers are in the context. Let's check the context again.

The context mentions:

- "a desigualdade global (entre nações), aumentou a desigualdade dentro dos países." So globalization reduces global inequality but increases within-country.

- "a desigualdade de renda e a desigualdade de riqueza"

- "o coeficiente de Gini"

- "o Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano ajustado à desigualdade"

- "conceitos como equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades"

So, possible answers:

1. What is the Gini coefficient used for? Answer: To measure income or wealth distribution.

2. What is the Human Development Index adjusted for inequality? Answer: It's a measure that considers inequality in health, education, and income.

3. How does globalization affect economic inequality? Answer: It reduces global inequality but increases within-country inequality.

4. What are the main factors contributing to economic inequality? Answer: Factors like income distribution, wealth distribution, and globalization.

Wait, but the context doesn't list specific factors, just mentions the Gini coefficient and HDI. So maybe more general.

Alternatively, the context mentions "a desigualdade de renda e a desigualdade de riqueza" as two aspects.

So, questions could be:

5. What are the two main aspects of economic inequality? Answer: Income inequality and wealth inequality.

6. What is the role of the Gini coefficient in economic analysis? Answer: It measures the distribution of income or wealth within a population.

7. What is the purpose of the Human Development Index adjusted for inequality? Answer: To account for inequality in health, education, and income when measuring development.

8. What are the key concepts related to economic inequality? Answer: Equity, equality of outcomes, and equality of opportunities.

9. How does the Human Development Index adjusted for inequality differ from the standard HDI? Answer: It incorporates inequality metrics into the development assessment.

10. What is the impact of globalization on economic inequality? Answer: Globalization reduces inequality between countries but increases it within countries.

I need to check if these answers are present in the context. The context does mention the Gini coefficient, HDI adjusted, the two types of inequality (income and wealth), and the effect of globalization. So these questions are valid.

Now, I need to phrase them in Portuguese, ensuring the answers are accurate.

Also, avoid using numbers unless they are in the context. Since the context doesn't have specific numbers, the answers should be general.

So, the 10 pairs would be:

1. Pergunta: O que mede o coeficiente de Gini? Resposta: A distribuição de renda ou riqueza dentro de uma população.

2. Pergunta: Qual a finalidade do Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano ajustado à desigualdade? Resposta: Considerar a desigualdade em saúde, educação e renda ao medir o desenvolvimento.

3. Pergunta: Quais são as duas principais formas de desigualdade econômica? Resposta: Desigualdade de renda e desigualdade de riqueza.

4. Pergunta: Como a globalização afeta a desigualdade econômica? Resposta: Reduz a desigualdade entre países, mas aumenta a desigualdade dentro dos países.

5. Pergunta: Quais são os conceitos-chave relacionados à desigualdade econômica? Resposta: Equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades.

6. Pergunta: O que é a desigualdade de renda? Resposta: A disparidade na distribuição da renda entre diferentes grupos da população.

7. Pergunta: O que é a desigualdade de riqueza? Resposta: A desigualdade na distribuição dos ativos e bens entre diferentes grupos da população.

8. Pergunta: Como o Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano ajustado difere do HDI padrão? Resposta: Ele incorpora métricas de desigualdade na avaliação do desenvolvimento.

9. Pergunta: Quais são os fatores que contribuem para a desigualdade econômica? Resposta: Distribuição de renda, distribuição de riqueza e impactos da globalização.

10. Pergunta: Qual é o papel da equidade no contexto da desigualdade econômica? Resposta: Buscar igualdade de oportunidades e distribuição justa de recursos.

I need to ensure that each question is distinct and covers different aspects. Also, check for any possible repetition. The above seems varied, covering definitions, differences, causes, and concepts.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "O que mede o coeficiente de Gini?",
    "resposta": "A distribuição de renda ou riqueza dentro de uma população."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual a finalidade do Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano ajustado à desigualdade?",
    "resposta": "Considerar a desigualdade em saúde, educação e renda ao medir o desenvolvimento."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são as duas principais formas de desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Desigualdade de renda e desigualdade de riqueza."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a globalização afeta a desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Reduz a desigualdade entre países, mas aumenta a desigualdade dentro dos países."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os conceitos-chave relacionados à desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que é a desigualdade de renda?",
    "resposta": "A disparidade na distribuição da renda entre diferentes grupos da população."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que é a desigualdade de riqueza?",
    "resposta": "A desigualdade na distribuição dos ativos e bens entre diferentes grupos da população."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como o Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano ajustado difere do HDI padrão?",
    "resposta": "Ele incorpora métricas de desigualdade na avaliação do desenvolvimento."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os fatores que contribuem para a desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Distribuição de renda, distribuição de riqueza e impactos da globalização."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o papel da equidade no contexto da desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Buscar igualdade de oportunidades e distribuição justa de recursos."
  }
]