<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by understanding the content.

The context talks about EU laws, their purpose, institutions, and the new international legal order. The facts mention DBpedia resources related to European Union Law, academic disciplines, scholars, and templates. 

First, I should identify key points from the context: EU's goal of peace and well-being, institutions beyond nation-states, and the new legal order. From the facts, there's info on academic disciplines, scholars like Henry G. Schermers and John Bell, and the use of templates in DBpedia.

Now, I need to create varied questions covering different aspects. Let me brainstorm possible questions:

1. What is the main objective of the EU according to the context? Answer: Promote peace, values, and well-being.
2. Which institutions operate beyond nation-states? Answer: Political, social, and economic institutions.
3. What does the EU represent according to its court? Answer: A new international legal order.
4. What is the academic discipline related to EU law? Answer: Law of the European Union.
5. Who is a legal scholar associated with EU law? Answer: Henry G. Schermers.
6. What does the DBpedia resource mention about EU law's academic discipline? Answer: It's a discipline in the field.
7. Which template is used in DBpedia for EU law? Answer: Template:R_from_move.
8. What is the primary topic of the Wikipedia entry on EU law? Answer: Law of the European Union.
9. What is the purpose of the EU's institutions? Answer: Cooperation and human development.
10. What does the EU's legal system transcend? Answer: National laws.

Wait, I need to ensure each answer is directly from the context or facts. Let me check each point again. For example, the first question's answer is from the context's first paragraph. The second answer refers to the institutions mentioned. The third is from the court's statement. The fourth and fifth are from the facts about disciplines and scholars. The sixth is about the academic discipline. The seventh is about the templates. The eighth is the primary topic. The ninth is the purpose of institutions. The tenth is about transcending national laws. 

I need to make sure there are no repeated questions and that each answer is unique. Let me structure them into CSV format as specified, using semicolons and Portuguese. Avoid any extra text. Okay, that should cover 10 varied questions.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o objetivo principal da União Europeia conforme mencionado no contexto?;promover a paz, seus valores e o bem-estar de seus povos
Quais instituições da União Europeia transcendem os Estados-nação?;instituições políticas, políticas sociais e econômicas
De acordo com o Tribunal de Justiça da União Europeia, o que a UE representa?;uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional
Qual é a disciplina acadêmica associada ao Direito da União Europeia?;Direito da União Europeia
Quem é um estudioso da área de Direito da União Europeia mencionado nos fatos?;Henry G. Schermers
Qual é a disciplina acadêmica principal relacionada ao Direito da União Europeia segundo os fatos?;Direito da União Europeia
Quais templates são utilizados na DBpedia para recursos sobre Direito da União Europeia?;Template:R_from_move; Template:R_from_word_rearrangement; Template:Redirect_category_shell
Qual é o tema principal da entrada da Wikipedia sobre Direito da União Europeia?;Direito da União Europeia
Qual é a finalidade das instituições da União Europeia segundo o contexto?;cooperação e desenvolvimento humano
O que o sistema jurídico da União Europeia transcende?;os Estados-nação
```