<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about the Normans. Let me start by understanding the content given.

First, the context mentions that the Normans were a Germanic people from northern France, descendants of Vikings. They had significant roles in history, like the Norman Conquest of England and the Sicilian states. Their religion was Norse paganism, and they spoke Old Norse. They are related to languages like Jèrriais and Guernésiais, and their culture influenced architecture, like St Mary's Church.

Looking at the facts, there are a lot of details about their religious practices, languages, associated places, and Wikipedia templates. For example, they use specific templates like Template:Infobox ethnic group and Template:Norse people. There are also mentions of battles they participated in, such as the Battle of Olivento, and places like Kells Castle occupied by them.

I need to create 10 varied questions. Let me list possible topics: religion, language, architecture, related terms, historical events, associated places, Wikipedia templates, ethnic groups, and cultural aspects.

1. Religion: They followed Norse paganism and later Christianity. So a question could be about their religion.
2. Language: They spoke Old Norse and Latin. Another question on languages.
3. Architecture: St Mary's Church and St Bride's Church are in the Normans style.
4. Related terms: They are related to Norse people and Gallo-Romans.
5. Historical events: Battles like the Battle of Olivento.
6. Places: Kells Castle and Waytemore Castle.
7. Wikipedia templates: They use specific templates like Template:Infobox ethnic group.
8. Ethnic groups: They are classified as EthnicGroup and part of Wikicat.
9. Cultural aspects: Their connection to the Bayeux Tapestry.
10. Nationality: People like Richard of Salerno have Norman nationality.

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check the facts again to confirm the answers. For example, the religion answer should mention both Norse paganism and Christianity, but the fact says they follow Norse paganism and later Christianity. Wait, the fact says "Normans segue a religião Norse paganism" and "Normans segue as religiões Christianity". So they followed Norse paganism and later Christianity. But the answer should be precise based on the facts provided.

Also, the answer for the language is Old Norse and Latin. The facts mention "Normans fala o idioma Old Norse" and "Normans fala o idioma Latin". So the answer should include both.

For the architecture, the churches are in the Normans style. The question should specify that.

I need to make sure each question is distinct and the answers are directly from the facts. Let me compile the 10 pairs now.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quais religiões os Normans seguiram?;Norse paganism e Christianity
Quais idiomas os Normans falavam?;Old Norse e Latin
Quais estruturas arquitetônicas seguem o estilo Normans?;Igrejas como St Mary's Church, Mortehoe e St Bride's Church, Llansantffraed
Quais grupos étnicos os Normans estão relacionados?;Norse people, Gallo-Romans e Franks
Quais batalhas envolveram os Normans como combatentes?;Battle of Olivento, Siege of Mahdia (1159–1160) e Battle of Civitate
Quais castelos foram construídos ou ocupados pelos Normans?;Kells Castle, Waytemore Castle e Callan Motte
Quais modelos de página wiki os Normans utilizam?;Template:Infobox ethnic group, Template:Norse people e Template:Authority control
Quais categorias os Normans pertencem no contexto etnográfico?;EthnicGroup, WikicatGermanicPeoples e WikicatNorthGermanicPeoples
Quais imagens representativas estão associadas aos Normans?;Le Canarien.jpg, Norman Conquests copy (1).jpg e Tower of London, Traitors Gate.jpg
Quais figuras históricas possuem nacionalidade Normans?;Richard of Salerno, Alexander of Paris e Maid Marian
```