<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context. The main topic is civil disobedience, its origins with Henry David Thoreau, its application by Gandhi and Martin Luther King, and its use in various protests. The facts list a lot of events and references, like the 2021 End SARS protests, the role of Wikipedia templates, and other movements.

First, I should make sure each question is unique and covers different aspects. The context mentions Thoreau, Gandhi, MLK, and examples of protests. The facts include specific events like the 2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests, Kenosha unrest, and others. I need to avoid repeating similar questions.

Let me brainstorm possible questions. For example, who formulated the concept? Answer: Henry David Thoreau. Then, which movement used it? Answer: Indian independence. Another could be about Martin Luther King's role. Also, mention specific events like the 2021 End SARS protests. Also, include the definition of civil disobedience. Maybe the difference between civil disobedience and other methods. Also, the Wikipedia templates used. And the categories or topics it's associated with, like nonviolence or activism by type.

Wait, the facts mention that civil disobedience is a type of direct action and nonviolence. Also, it's linked to categories like Direct action and Nonviolence. Some events like the Gwangju Uprising used it. Also, the 2017 Serbian protests. Need to ensure each question is distinct. Let me list 10 different angles: origin, key figures, specific movements, events, definitions, categories, Wikipedia templates, etc.

Now, check for uniqueness. For example, one question about the origin, another about Gandhi's application, another about MLK, another about specific events like End SARS, another about the definition, another about categories, another about Wikipedia templates, another about the 2019 Montenegrin protests, another about the 2021 Uptown Minneapolis unrest, and another about the 2017 Albanian protests. That should cover 10 varied questions. Make sure the answers are accurate based on the context and facts provided. Avoid repetition and ensure each answer is directly inferable from the content.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quem formulou o conceito de desobediência civil?;Henry David Thoreau
Qual movimento utilizou a desobediência civil para a independência da Índia?;Independência da Índia e do Paquistão
Qual figura histórica associou a desobediência civil à luta pelos direitos civis nos EUA?;Martin Luther King
Quais protestos utilizaram os métodos de desobediência civil em 2021?;End SARS
Qual é a definição de desobediência civil segundo o contexto?;Forma de protesto político pacífico contra ordens consideradas injustas ou um governo opressor
Quais categorias estão associadas à desobediência civil?;Direct action;Nonviolence
Quais modelos de página wiki são usados para desobediência civil?;Template:Gandhi;Template:Social and political philosophy
Quais protestos ocorreram em 2019 no Montenegro e utilizaram desobediência civil?;2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests
Quais eventos de 2021 no Minneapolis utilizaram desobediência civil?;2021 Uptown Minneapolis unrest
Quais protestos da Ásia utilizaram desobediência civil?;Assam Movement;Gwangju Uprising
```