<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about the 1973 oil crisis. Let me start by understanding the context. The crisis began in October 1973 when OPEC members imposed an embargo on countries supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. The embargo targeted nations like the US, UK, Japan, etc., leading to a significant price increase from $3 to $12 per barrel. It's referred to as the first oil shock, with long-term effects on global politics and economics.

Now, the facts include various categories like types (Embargo, Crisis, etc.), images, models used in Wikipedia pages, and subjects. The user wants questions that are varied, covering different aspects of the content, without repetition.

First, I should identify key points from the context: the cause (OPEC embargo), the countries affected, the price change, the duration (until March 1974), the impact on the economy and politics, and its classification as the first oil shock. Also, the facts mention images, models, and categories, which might be used for some questions.

I need to create 10 distinct questions. Let me brainstorm:

1. What event triggered the 1973 oil crisis?
2. Which countries were initially targeted by the embargo?
3. How much did oil prices rise during this crisis?
4. What was the outcome of the embargo in terms of economic impact?
5. What was the original name of the crisis?
6. Which organizations or pages are associated with the crisis in Wikipedia?
7. What was the primary reason for the embargo?
8. What were some of the images or charts related to the crisis?
9. What were the long-term effects of the crisis?
10. What is the significance of the 1973 oil crisis in history?

Wait, some of these might be similar. Let me check the facts again. The facts include mentions of models like Template:Div col, Template:Cold War, etc. Also, the crisis is categorized under Energy crises, Arab-Israeli conflict, etc. Maybe some questions can be about the classifications or the models used.

But the user wants the questions to be based on the context provided, not the facts. Wait, the context is the main text, and the facts are additional data. The user says to generate questions based on the context and facts provided. So I can use both.

Let me structure the questions to cover different aspects:

1. What was the main cause of the 1973 oil crisis?
2. Which countries were initially targeted by the OPEC embargo?
3. How much did the price of oil increase during this crisis?
4. What was the duration of the oil embargo?
5. What was the original name given to this crisis?
6. What were some of the economic impacts of the embargo?
7. Which categories or topics are associated with the 1973 oil crisis in Wikipedia?
8. What images or charts are commonly associated with the crisis?
9. How did the crisis affect global politics and economics?
10. What is the significance of the 1973 oil crisis in modern history?

Now, I need to ensure each question is distinct and answers are derived from the context. Let me verify each answer against the context:

1. The embargo by OPEC members due to the Yom Kippur War.
2. The initial countries were the US, UK, Japan, Netherlands, Canada, later expanded to Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa.
3. Price rose from $3 to $12, with higher prices in the US.
4. The embargo lasted until March 1974.
5. It was called the "first oil shock."
6. Economic impacts include inflation, recession, energy policies.
7. Categories include Energy crises, Arab-Israeli conflict, etc.
8. Images like crude oil prices, gasoline rationing, oil price chronology.
9. Led to long-term changes in energy policy, OPEC's influence.
10. It marked the first major oil crisis, affecting global economies.

Now, I need to format these into CSV, ensuring correct punctuation and separation by semicolons. Let me check for repetition and ensure each question is unique. Also, the answers must be precise based on the context provided. I'll make sure the answers are concise and directly from the context. Let me list them out now.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual foi a causa principal da crise petrolífera de 1973?;O embargo petrolífero imposto pelos membros da Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP) em resposta à Guerra do Yom Kippur.
Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do embargo petrolífero?;Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido, Estados Unidos.
Qual foi a variação nos preços do petróleo durante a crise?;O preço do petróleo subiu de US$ 3 por barril para cerca de US$ 12 no mundo inteiro, sendo ainda mais alto nos EUA.
Qual foi a duração do embargo petrolífero?;De outubro de 1973 até março de 1974.
Qual era o nome original dado à crise petrolífera de 1973?;Primeiro choque do petróleo.
Quais foram os efeitos econômicos da crise?;Causou uma crise global, com impactos de curto e longo prazo na política e economia, incluindo inflação e recessão.
Quais categorias ou assuntos estão associados à crise petrolífera de 1973?;Energy crises;Arab–Israeli conflict;Petroleum politics;Inflation.
Quais imagens ou gráficos são comumente associados à crise?;Crude oil prices since 1861.png;Gasoline rations - Bureau of Engraving and Printing.jpg;Oil price chronology-june2007.gif.
Como a crise afetou a política e economia global?;Gerou mudanças significativas nas políticas energéticas, aumentou a dependência de fontes alternativas e reforçou o poder geopolítico dos países petroleiros.
Qual é a importância da crise petrolífera de 1973 na história moderna?;Marcou o primeiro choque do petróleo, influenciando profundamente a economia e política global e servindo como exemplo de conflito de recursos naturais.
```