<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context about the Black Death. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly. The Black Death was a pandemic that killed millions in the 14th century, caused by Yersinia pestis, spread via fleas on rats, originating in Asia and spreading through trade routes. The impact was huge, reducing Europe's population by 30-60%, and having long-term social and economic effects.

First, I need to make sure the questions are varied and cover different aspects. Let me list possible areas: causes, origin, spread, mortality rates, effects, transmission, key facts, notable figures, historical context, and maybe some specific data points.

Now, I should check the facts provided. There's mention of the Yersinia pestis bacterium, the three forms of plague, the origin in Asia Central/Oriental, spread via Rota da Seda, the role of rats and fleas, the mortality rate (75-200 million), the impact on Europe's population, the time frame (1347-1351), and some specific data like the 475 million to 350-375 million population drop.

I need to avoid repeating similar questions. For example, one question about the cause, another about the origin, another about the transmission method, another about mortality rates, etc. Also, include some about the effects on society and economy, and maybe the names of scholars who studied it.

Let me draft the questions and answers:

1. What caused the Black Death?
   - Yersinia pestis.

2. Where did the Black Death originate?
   - Asia Central or Oriental.

3. How was the Black Death transmitted?
   - Through fleas on rats.

4. What was the estimated mortality rate in Europe?
   - 30% to 60% of the population.

5. What was the total population reduction in the 14th century?
   - From 475 million to 350-375 million.

6. Which disease is the Black Death associated with?
   - Bubonic plague.

7. When did the Black Death reach England?
   - The seventh year after it began (around 1353).

8. What was the primary vector for the spread of Yersinia pestis?
   - Oriental rat flea.

9. Who are notable scholars associated with the Black Death?
   - Ole Jørgen Benedictow and Sharon N. DeWitte.

10. What was the impact on Europe's population recovery?
    - Took about 200 years to recover.

Wait, need to check if these answers are directly from the context. For example, question 7 refers to the citation about England, which is in the facts. Also, the mortality rate is mentioned as 30-60% in Europe. The population reduction is stated as 475 to 375 million. The primary vector is the Oriental rat flea, which is in the legend. Notable scholars are mentioned in the facts. The impact on recovery is mentioned as 200 years. That seems solid. Let me format these as CSV pairs, ensuring they are in Portuguese and the separator is a semicolon.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual foi a causa principal da Peste Negra?;A bactéria Yersinia pestis
De onde a Peste Negra provavelmente originou-se?;Ásia Central ou Oriental
Como a Peste Negra foi transmitida?;Por meio de pulgas que viviam nos ratos
Qual foi a taxa de mortalidade estimada na Europa?;30% a 60% da população
Qual foi a redução populacional global no século XIV?;De 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões
Qual doença está associada à Peste Negra?;Peste bubônica
Quando a Peste Negra chegou à Inglaterra?;Na sétima ano após o início (aproximadamente 1353)
Qual foi o vetor principal de transmissão da Yersinia pestis?;Pulga do ratão oriental
Quem são pesquisadores associados à Peste Negra?;Ole Jørgen Benedictow e Sharon N. DeWitte
Qual foi o impacto na recuperação da população europeia?;Demorou cerca de 200 anos para recuperar o nível anterior
```