<think>
Okay, the user wants me to generate 10 CSV question-answer pairs based on the context provided, which is "Sky_UK". Let me start by understanding what "Sky_UK" refers to. Sky UK is a major telecommunications and media company in the United Kingdom, known for providing TV, internet, and phone services. They also have a satellite TV service called Sky TV.

First, I need to come up with 10 different questions that cover various aspects of Sky UK. The questions should be varied and not repetitive. Let me brainstorm possible topics: services offered, company structure, history, key facts, technology used, partnerships, market position, customer base, awards, and maybe some specific facts like launch dates or ownership changes.

Now, I need to ensure each question has a single correct answer that can be inferred or explicitly stated from the context. Since the context is limited to "Sky_UK", I should focus on general knowledge about the company. For example, questions about their services, when they were founded, their parent company, etc.

I should avoid making up information not present in the context. Since there's no detailed information provided, I'll have to rely on common knowledge about Sky UK. Let me check if there are any specific details I should include. For instance, Sky UK was formed in 2001 from the merger of British Sky Broadcasting and the UK satellite TV service. They are part of the Sky Group, which is owned by Liberty Global.

Now, structuring the questions and answers. Let me list possible questions:

1. What is Sky UK known for?
2. When was Sky UK founded?
3. What services does Sky UK provide?
4. Who owns Sky UK?
5. What is the parent company of Sky UK?
6. What is the name of Sky UK's satellite TV service?
7. What is the market position of Sky UK in the UK?
8. What technology does Sky UK use for its services?
9. What major merger led to the formation of Sky UK?
10. What is the significance of Sky UK in the UK media industry?

Wait, but I need to make sure each answer is accurate based on common knowledge. For example, Sky UK's parent company is Liberty Global, and they provide TV, internet, and phone services. Their satellite service is Sky TV, and they were formed in 2001 from the merger of British Sky Broadcasting and the UK satellite TV service.

I need to ensure each answer is correct and that the questions are varied. Let me verify each point:

1. Sky UK is known for providing TV, internet, and phone services.
2. Founded in 2,001.
3. Services include TV, internet, and phone.
4. Owned by Liberty Global.
5. Parent company is Liberty Global.
6. Satellite TV service is Sky TV.
7. Market leader in UK broadband and TV.
8. Uses satellite and fiber-optic technology.
9. Formed from the merger of British Sky Broadcasting and UK satellite TV.
10. Significance as a leading media and telecom provider.

I need to make sure there are no repeated questions and that each answer is distinct. Also, check for any possible inaccuracies. Once all questions are verified, format them into CSV with semicolons as separators.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o principal serviço oferecido pela Sky UK?;TV por satélite, internet e serviços de telecomunicações
Em que ano a Sky UK foi fundada?;2001
Quem detém a maior parte das ações da Sky UK?;Liberty Global
Qual é o nome da rede de TV por satélite da Sky UK?;Sky TV
Qual é o principal diferencial da Sky UK no mercado britânico?;Oferecer serviços integrados de TV, internet e telefonia
Quais tecnologias são utilizadas pela Sky UK para seus serviços?;Satélite e fibra óptica
Qual foi a fusão que resultou na criação da Sky UK?;Fusão entre British Sky Broadcasting e o serviço de TV por satélite da Grã-Bretanha
Qual é a posição da Sky UK no setor de telecomunicações da Grã-Bretanha?;Líder em banda larga e TV por satélite
Quais são os principais segmentos de atuação da Sky UK?;Telecomunicações;TV por satélite;Internet
Qual é o impacto da Sky UK na indústria de entretenimento da Grã-Bretanha?;É uma das principais empresas de mídia e tecnologia do país
```