<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about Computational Complexity Theory. Let me start by understanding the context and facts given.

The main topic is Computational Complexity Theory, which is part of theoretical computer science and mathematics. The facts mention various people associated with the field, different classifications, templates used in Wikipedia, images, and other related terms. 

First, I should identify key aspects of the subject. The theory classifies problems based on resource usage (like time and space) and explores relationships between these classifications. The facts list several individuals who work in this area, such as Christos Papadimitriou, Ryan Williams, and others. There are also mentions of specific models like Template:ComplexityClasses, and classifications like Computational complexity classes.

I need to create questions that cover different aspects: people involved, classifications, models used, images, and other attributes. Each question should have a unique correct answer derived from the facts. Let me make sure not to repeat similar questions.

For example, one question could be about the hiperônimo of Computational Complexity Theory, which is "Branch" according to the facts. Another could ask about a notable person associated with it, like Christos Papadimitriou. There are also mentions of specific images, such as "Complexity subsets pspace.svg," which can be a question about the representative image.

I should check the facts again to ensure accuracy. For instance, the fact states that Computational Complexity Theory uses the Template:ComplexityClasses. Another fact mentions the image "Sorting quicksort anim.gif." Also, the main topic is "Computational complexity theory" as per the tópico principal.

I need to make sure each answer is directly from the facts provided. Let me list out possible questions and their corresponding answers, ensuring variety and correctness. Avoiding repetition is crucial, so each question should target a different aspect, such as classifications, people, models, images, and other attributes like the date or identifiers.

Once I have 10 pairs, I'll format them into CSV with semicolons as separators. Let me verify each entry to ensure they meet the requirements: correct answers, varied questions, and no extra content.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o hiperônimo da teoria da complexidade computacional?;Branch
Quem atua na disciplina Computational complexity theory?;Christos Papadimitriou
Qual é o título associado à teoria da complexidade computacional?;Computational complexity classes
Quais modelos de página wiki são usados pela teoria da complexidade computacional?;Template:ComplexityClasses
Qual é a imagem representativa da teoria da complexidade computacional?;Complexity subsets pspace.svg
Quem é conhecido por Computational complexity theory?;Nikolai Sergeevich Bakhvalov
Qual é o tipo de classificação da teoria da complexidade computacional?;Computational complexity classes
Quais são os modelos de página wiki utilizados?;Template:Harv
Qual é o tópico principal da teoria da complexidade computacional?;Computational complexity theory
Quem atua na área Computational complexity theory?;Shmuel Safra
```