<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about civil disobedience. First, I need to make sure I understand the requirements. The output must be in CSV format with each question and answer separated by a semicolon. The questions should be varied and cover different aspects of the content without repetition. Also, each answer must be directly inferable from the context or facts given.

Looking at the context, civil disobedience is defined as a peaceful form of protest against unjust laws or oppressive governments. Key figures mentioned are Henry David Thoreau, Mahatma Gandhi, and Martin Luther King. The examples include movements like the Indian independence, the U.S. civil rights movement, and various protests like the End SARS in Nigeria, the Women's March in Poland, and others listed in the facts.

Now, I need to create questions that cover different aspects: definitions, historical examples, key figures, and specific events. Let me start by listing possible questions. For example, "What is civil disobedience?" which would have the answer from the context. Then, asking about the original formulator, Henry David Thoreau. Next, examples like Gandhi's use in India's independence. Another could be about Martin Luther King's role in the U.S. civil rights movement. 

I also need to include specific events mentioned in the facts, such as the 2021 End SARS protests in Nigeria, the 2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests, and the 2020 LGBT protests in Poland. Each of these can form a question. Also, the facts mention the use of the term in various contexts, so maybe a question about the origin of the term. 

Wait, the user provided some examples in the prompt. Let me check those to ensure I'm aligning with the expected format. The examples include questions like "Como é chamado quando as pessoas da sociedade se rebelam contra leis que consideram injustas?" with the answer "esobediência civil." So, I need to make sure the answers are concise and directly from the context.

Let me list out 10 possible questions:

1. What is civil disobedience?
2. Who formulated the concept of civil disobedience?
3. Which movement used civil disobedience for independence?
4. What is an example of civil disobedience in the U.S.?
5. Which Nigerian protest used civil disobedience?
6. What event in 2019 involved civil disobedience in Montenegro?
7. Which 2020 Polish protest used civil disobedience?
8. What is the origin of the term civil disobedience?
9. Which movement is associated with the 2021 End SARS protests?
10. What is another name for the concept of civil disobedience?

Now, I need to verify that each answer is present in the context or facts. For example, the origin is Thoreau, the examples given in the context and facts. The answer to the first question would be the definition provided. The second question's answer is Thoreau. The third is Gandhi's Indian independence. The fourth is Martin Luther King's civil rights movement. The fifth is End SARS. The sixth is Montenegrin anti-corruption protests. The seventh is the 2020 LGBT protests in Poland. The eighth is Thoreau. The ninth is End SARS. The tenth might be "desobediência civil" as the term is used. 

Wait, the user's examples have answers like "esobediência civil" which is the Portuguese term. So I need to ensure that the answers are in Portuguese. Also, check for any repetition. The example answers use the term "esobediência civil," so maybe the answer to the first question is "esobediência civil." However, the context defines it as a form of protest. Wait, the user's examples have "esobediência civil" as the answer, but the actual term is "desobediência civil." Maybe there's a typo in the examples. Let me check the context again. The context says "desobediência civil" is the term. So the answer should be "desobediência civil," not "esobediência civil." The user's examples might have a typo. But the user's examples have answers with "esobediência civil," so perhaps the user expects that. However, the correct term is "desobediência civil." This might be a mistake in the examples, but I need to follow the user's examples if they are part of the instruction. Wait, the user provided examples, but the context mentions "desobediência civil." The user's examples have answers like "esobediência civil," which is a typo. But maybe the user expects the answer to be in Portuguese with the correct spelling. Let me confirm. The user's examples have "esobediência civil" but the correct term is "desobediência civil." However, since the user's examples are part of the instructions, perhaps I should follow them, even if there's a typo. Alternatively, maybe the user made a mistake. To be safe, I'll use the correct term "desobediência civil" as per the context. 

So, adjusting the answers accordingly. Now, ensuring each answer is correct and unique. Let me structure the 10 questions with the correct answers. Also, check that the questions are not repetitive and cover different aspects. Once that's done, format them into CSV with semicolons.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a definição de desobediência civil?;forma de protesto político pacífico contra leis ou governos considerados injustos ou opressores
Quem formulou o conceito de desobediência civil?;Henry David Thoreau
Qual movimento utilizou a desobediência civil para a independência da Índia?;Movimento de independência da Índia
Qual é um exemplo de desobediência civil nos Estados Unidos?;Luta pelos direitos civis liderada por Martin Luther King
Qual protesto na Nigéria utilizou a desobediência civil?;2021 End SARS memorial protest
Qual evento em 2019 envolveu desobediência civil na Montenegro?;2019 Montenegrin anti-corruption protests
Qual protesto em 2020 na Polônia utilizou desobediência civil?;August 2020 LGBT protests in Poland
Quem é associado à origem do termo desobediência civil?;Henry David Thoreau
Qual movimento está ligado aos protestos 2021 End SARS?;Desobediência civil
Qual é o nome alternativo para o conceito de desobediência civil?;desobediência civil
```