<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context about packet switching. Let me start by understanding the content thoroughly.

The context explains that packet switching is a method where data is divided into packets, each sent independently through a shared network. It contrasts with circuit switching, which establishes a dedicated connection. Packet switching optimizes bandwidth, reduces latency, and increases robustness, though it has higher complexity and variable QoS. There are two types: connection-oriented (virtual circuits) and connectionless (datagrams). Examples include ATM, Frame Relay, X.25 for connection-oriented, and IP for connectionless. The facts mention notable people like Donald Davies, Paul Baran, Sharla Boehm, and W. David Sincoskie associated with packet switching.

Now, I need to create 10 varied questions. Let me brainstorm possible angles:

1. What is packet switching?
2. How does it differ from circuit switching?
3. What are the advantages of packet switching?
4. What are the types of packet switching?
5. Who are key figures in packet switching development?
6. What is connection-oriented packet switching?
7. What is connectionless packet switching?
8. What are examples of connection-oriented protocols?
9. What are examples of connectionless protocols?
10. What are the drawbacks of packet switching?

Wait, the examples given in the context include ATM, Frame Relay, X.25 for connection-oriented, and IP for connectionless. Also, the facts mention Donald Davies and Paul Baran. I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check the examples provided in the user's sample to avoid repetition. The sample questions cover who developed it, what it does, how it contrasts with circuit switching, etc. So I should focus on other aspects like advantages, types, examples, drawbacks, and key people.

Let me structure each question and answer:

1. What is packet switching characterized by? (Answer: sending data in packets through shared links)
2. How does packet switching optimize network resources? (Answer: statistical multiplexing)
3. What is a disadvantage of packet switching? (Answer: variable QoS, jitter, latency)
4. What is the difference between connection-oriented and connectionless packet switching? (Answer: connection-oriented uses virtual paths, connectionless sends packets independently)
5. Who is credited with coining the term "packet switching"? (Answer: Donald Davies)
6. Which protocol is an example of connection-oriented packet switching? (Answer: ATM)
7. What is a key feature of connectionless packet switching? (Answer: no pre-established path, dynamic routing)
8. What are the main benefits of packet switching over circuit switching? (Answer: better bandwidth utilization, robustness)
9. What is the primary purpose of statistical multiplexing in packet switching? (Answer: efficiently use shared bandwidth)
10. Which protocol is a classic example of connectionless packet switching? (Answer: IP)

I need to ensure the answers are directly inferred from the context. Let me verify each point against the provided content. The context mentions statistical multiplexing, advantages like bandwidth optimization, drawbacks like variable QoS, and examples of protocols. The key figures are mentioned, so questions about who developed it can include Davies and Baran. However, the sample includes questions about Baran, so maybe include that. Wait, the user's sample includes questions about Paul Baran and Donald Davies. Let me check the facts: the facts list Paul Baran and Donald Davies as known for packet switching. So a question about who developed it could be "Who is credited with developing packet switching?" Answer: Paul Baran and Donald Davies. But the sample has a question about Paul Baran's development. Maybe include that. Let me adjust the questions to cover different aspects without repetition.

Wait, the user's sample has questions about Paul Baran's work, so I need to avoid similar questions. Let me focus on other aspects. For example, the types of packet switching (connection-oriented vs. connectionless), examples, advantages, disadvantages, and key terms like jitter, latency, etc. Also, the facts mention Sharla Boehm and W. David Sincoskie, but the context doesn't elaborate on their contributions, so maybe avoid questions about them unless necessary. The main focus is on the technical aspects.

Finalizing the questions:

1. O que caracteriza a comutação de pacotes?;envio de pacotes individualmente por ligações de dados partilhadas
2. Como a comutação de pacotes otimiza o uso da largura de banda?;utiliza multiplexagem temporal estatística
3. Quais são desvantagens da comutação de pacotes?;variação na qualidade de serviço, jitter e atrasos
4. Como a comutação de pacotes com ligação difere da sem ligação?;a comutação com ligação usa um caminho virtual fixo, enquanto a sem ligação encaminha pacotes independentemente
5. Quem é creditado por cunhar o nome moderno de comutação de pacotes?;Donald Davies
6. Qual protocolo é exemplo de comutação de pacotes com ligação?;ATM
7. Qual característica principal da comutação de pacotes sem ligação?;não possui um caminho pré-estabelecido, permitindo roteamento dinâmico
8. Quais são os principais benefícios da comutação de pacotes em comparação à comutação de circuitos?;melhor utilização da largura de banda e maior robustez
9. Qual é a finalidade principal da multiplexagem estatística na comutação de pacotes?;otimizar o uso eficiente da largura de banda compartilhada
10. Qual protocolo é um exemplo clássico de comutação de pacotes sem ligação?;IP

I need to ensure each answer is directly from the context. The answers should be concise and in Portuguese. Let me check each point again against the context to confirm accuracy. For example, the advantage of statistical multiplexing is mentioned, and examples like ATM and IP are given. The types are connection-oriented and connectionless. The drawbacks include variable QoS, jitter, latency. The key figure for the term is Donald Davies. The answers should be correct. Now, format them into CSV as specified.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
O que caracteriza a comutação de pacotes?;envio de pacotes individualmente por ligações de dados partilhadas
Como a comutação de pacotes otimiza o uso da largura de banda?;utiliza multiplexagem temporal estatística
Quais são desvantagens da comutação de pacotes?;variação na qualidade de serviço, jitter e atrasos
Como a comutação de pacotes com ligação difere da sem ligação?;a comutação com ligação usa um caminho virtual fixo, enquanto a sem ligação encaminha pacotes independentemente
Quem é creditado por cunhar o nome moderno de comutação de pacotes?;Donald Davies
Qual protocolo é exemplo de comutação de pacotes com ligação?;ATM
Qual característica principal da comutação de pacotes sem ligação?;não possui um caminho pré-estabelecido, permitindo roteamento dinâmico
Quais são os principais benefícios da comutação de pacotes em comparação à comutação de circuitos?;melhor utilização da largura de banda e maior robustez
Qual é a finalidade principal da multiplexagem estatística na comutação de pacotes?;otimizar o uso eficiente da largura de banda compartilhada
Qual protocolo é um exemplo clássico de comutação de pacotes sem ligação?;IP
```