<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about Southern California. First, I need to make sure I understand the requirements. They want each question to be varied and cover different aspects of the content, no repeated similar questions, and only the CSV output without any extra text.

Looking at the context, Southern California is a region in California with specific geographical and demographic details. The facts provided include various entities and attributes like companies, people, landmarks, and geographical data. I need to extract information from these facts to form questions and answers.

I should start by identifying key points from the context and facts. For example, the population in 2019 was 23.8 million. That's a good fact for a question. Then there are mentions of companies like May Company California, Fedco, and others that operate in the region. People like Stephen Kosslyn and Diane Anderson-Minshall were born there. Also, there are geographical features like the Oceano Pacífico to the west, the Mexican border to the south, and Arizona to the east.

I need to ensure each question is unique. For instance, one question could be about the population, another about the location of a specific company, another about a person born there, and so on. I should also check for different aspects: geography, population, notable people, companies, landmarks, and maybe some events like earthquakes.

Wait, the user mentioned that the answer should be explicitly or inferable from the content. So I need to make sure that each answer is directly supported by the provided facts. For example, if a fact states that Southern California has an area of 56,505 square miles, that can be a question about the area. Similarly, the coordinates 34.0 -117.0 are mentioned, which could be another question.

I should also check for the types of entities mentioned, like "PhysicalEntity100001930" and "Location100027167" to see if those can be used in questions. But maybe that's more technical and might not be as relevant. Focus on the more straightforward facts.

Another thing is the images and models used, like the I-8 (CA).svg image or the Template:Portal wiki model. But the user wants questions related to the content, so maybe those are less important unless they can be tied to specific facts.

I need to avoid repeating the same type of questions. For example, if I ask about population, I should not have another question about population in 2020 unless it's a different aspect. Wait, the context mentions the population in 2019, and another fact says "Southern California população registrada em 2020" which is population registered in 2020. So that's a different data point and can be a separate question.

Also, there are earthquakes mentioned, like the 1994 Northridge earthquake affecting Southern California. That could be a question about which earthquake affected the region.

I need to list out all possible facts and then form questions. Let me go through the facts again:

- Population in 2019: 23.8 million
- Companies: May Company California, Fedco, KIIS-FM, etc.
- People: Stephen Kosslyn, Diane Anderson-Minshall, etc.
- Geographical features: Oceano Pacífico, Mexican border, Arizona
- Area: 56,505 mi², 146,347.28 mi² (wait, there's a discrepancy here? Wait, the facts say "Southern California possui área total (mi²) 56505" and "Southern California possui área total 146347.2781745357". Wait, that seems conflicting. Maybe the first is a smaller area, like a specific region, and the second is the total area. Need to clarify. But since the user provided these facts, I should use them as given. Maybe the first is a specific subdivision's area, and the second is the total. So the question about area could be about the total area being 146,347.28 mi².

Also, the coordinates 34.0 -117.0 are mentioned. That's a geographic coordinate.

Other points: Southern California is a Place, PhysicalEntity, etc. Maybe a question about its type.

The images like I-8 (CA).svg, I-210 (CA).svg, etc., but maybe that's not relevant unless tied to a specific fact.

Also, there are mentions of subdivisions like Kern County, San Diego County, Riverside County, San Bernardino County, etc. So questions about subdivisions.

Now, to form 10 unique questions. Let's list them:

1. What is the population of Southern California in 2019?
   Answer: Approximately 23.8 million.

2. Which company operates in Southern California?
   Answer: May Company California.

3. Who was born in Southern California?
   Answer: Stephen Kosslyn.

4. What is the western boundary of Southern California?
   Answer: The Pacific Ocean.

5. What is the total area of Southern California?
   Answer: 146,347.28 square miles.

6. Which earthquake affected Southern California in 1994?
   Answer: The Northridge earthquake.

7. What is the geographical coordinate of Southern California?
   Answer: 34.0° N, 117.0° W.

8. Which subdivision is part of Southern California?
   Answer: Kern County, California.

9. Which company is associated with Southern California?
   Answer: KIIS-FM.

10. What is the southern boundary of Southern California?
    Answer: The international border with Mexico.

Wait, the user said to avoid repeated similar questions. Let me check if these are varied. Yes, they cover population, companies, people, boundaries, area, earthquakes, coordinates, subdivisions, etc. That seems to meet the requirement.

Now, I need to ensure the answers are correct based on the provided facts. For example, the population in 2019 is 23.8 million as per the context. The companies like May Company California and Fedco are mentioned. The earthquake in 1994 is the Northridge earthquake. Coordinates are 34.0 -117.0. The subdivisions like Kern County are mentioned. The southern boundary is the Mexican border. The western boundary is the Pacific Ocean. The total area is 146,347.28 mi². The company KIIS-FM is mentioned. The person Stephen Kosslyn is mentioned. 

I think that covers 10 varied questions. Now, format them as CSV with semicolons, ensuring no markdown and only the CSV content.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a população de Southern California em 2019?;Aproximadamente 23,8 milhões de pessoas
Quais empresas atuam na região Southern California?;May Company California;Fedco;KIIS-FM
Quem nasceu em Southern California?;Stephen Kosslyn;Diane Anderson-Minshall;Vella Lovell
Qual é a fronteira ocidental de Southern California?;Oceano Pacífico
Qual é a área total de Southern California?;146.347,28 mi²
Qual terremoto afetou Southern California em 1994?;1994 Northridge earthquake
Quais são as coordenadas geográficas de Southern California?;34,0° N;117,0° W
Quais subdivisões são parte de Southern California?;Kern County, California;San Diego County, California;San Bernardino County, California
Quais empresas ou instituições atuam em Southern California?;Automobile Club of Southern California;California Avocado Society;Norms Restaurants
Qual é a fronteira sul de Southern California?;Fronteira internacional com o México
```