<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about the Huguenots. Let me start by understanding the context. The Huguenots were French Protestants during the religious wars in the 16th century. They faced persecution under Louis XIV, leading to their exodus after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685. They were mostly Calvinist and part of the Reformed Church, with some Lutheran groups in Alsace, Moselle, and Montbéliard.

Now, the facts include various Wikipedia templates, images, categories, and related topics. I need to create questions that cover different aspects. Let me list possible questions:

1. When did the revocation of the Edict of Nantes occur? (Answer: 1685)
2. Who persecuted the Huguenots under Louis XIV? (Answer: Catholic Church in France)
3. What was the main religion of the Huguenots? (Answer: Calvinism)
4. Which event led to the exodus of Huguenots? (Answer: Revocation of the Edict of Nantes)
5. What is the name of the image showing the Huguenot obelisk? (Answer: Huguenot obelisk.jpg)
6. Which category is related to Huguenots' history in France? (Answer: Huguenot history in France)
7. What is the name of the image depicting the Massacre of the Vaudois of Merindol? (Answer: Massacre of the Vaudois of Merindol.jpg)
8. Which group is related to the Huguenots? (Answer: Scotch-Irish Americans)
9. What is the name of the image representing the Huguenot cross? (Answer: Huguenot cross.svg)
10. Which category includes Huguenots under French diaspora? (Answer: French diaspora)

Wait, some answers might need to be checked against the facts. For example, the revocation date is 1685, which is correct. The main religion is Calvinism. The Massacre of the Vaudois is mentioned as an image. The Scotch-Irish Americans are related. The Huguenot cross image is listed. The categories like Huguenot history in France and French diaspora are present. I need to ensure the answers are directly from the context and facts provided. Also, avoid repeating similar questions. Let me structure the CSV accordingly, making sure each question is distinct and answers are accurate.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quando ocorreu a revogação do Édito de Nantes?;18 de outubro de 1685
Quem perseguiu os Huguenotes sob o reinado de Luís XIV?;Igreja Católica em França
Qual era a religião principal dos Huguenotes?;Calvinismo
Qual evento levou à exílio dos Huguenotes?;Revogação do Édito de Nantes
Qual é o nome da imagem que representa o obelisco huguenote?;Huguenot obelisk.jpg
Qual categoria está relacionada à história dos Huguenotes na França?;Huguenot history in France
Qual é o nome da imagem que mostra a Massacre dos Vaudois de Merindol?;Massacre of the Vaudois of Merindol.jpg
Qual grupo está relacionado aos Huguenotes?;Scotch-Irish Americans
Qual é o nome da imagem que representa o crux huguenote?;Huguenot cross.svg
Qual categoria inclui os Huguenotes na diáspora francesa?;French diaspora
```