<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about Fresno, California. Let me start by understanding the requirements. The user wants questions and answers that are directly related to the given information, with each question covering different aspects. I need to avoid repeating similar questions and ensure each answer is unique and correct.

First, I'll go through the context and facts to extract key points. The context mentions Fresno's population, its status as the fifth most populous city in California, its founding year, incorporation date, and population data from the 2020 census. The facts list various people born or died in Fresno, sports teams based there, landmarks, and other geographical details.

I need to create questions that cover different areas: population statistics, notable people, sports teams, landmarks, geographical features, and administrative details. Let me make a list of possible questions.

1. What is the population rank of Fresno in California? (Answer: 5th)
2. When was Fresno incorporated? (Answer: 12 de outubro de 1885)
3. Which sports team is based in Fresno? (Answer: Selland Arena, but need to check facts for specific teams)
4. Who was born in Fresno? (Answer: Chris McNealy, but need to list different people)
5. What is the population of Fresno according to the 2020 census? (Answer: 542 mil)
6. What is the density population of Fresno in mi²? (Answer: 4722.6)
7. Which landmark is located in Fresno? (Answer: The Big Fresno Fair)
8. What is the area total of Fresno in km²? (Answer: 300.43)
9. Which court is located in Fresno? (Answer: United States District Court for the Eastern District of California)
10. What is the gentílico populacional of Fresno? (Answer: Fresnan)

Wait, some of these might need to be checked against the facts provided. For example, the sports teams mentioned include the Washington Huskies women's basketball team in 2015–16, but I need to confirm if they are based in Fresno. Also, Selland Arena is mentioned as located in Fresno. Let me verify each fact to ensure accuracy.

Another point: the population of Fresno according to the 2020 census is stated as over 542,000, so the answer should be "mais de 542 mil habitantes." The density in mi² is 4722.6, and in km² is 1823.43. The area total is 300.43 km². The gentílico is "Fresnan."

Now, I need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me structure the 10 questions accordingly, making sure to use the correct data from the context and facts provided.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a posição de Fresno em termos de população no estado da Califórnia?;quinta cidade mais populosa
Em que data Fresno foi incorporada?;12 de outubro de 1885
Qual é a população de Fresno segundo o censo de 2020?;mais de 542 mil habitantes
Qual é a densidade populacional de Fresno em milhares por quilômetro quadrado?;1823,43
Qual é o nome do estádio localizado em Fresno, California?;Selland Arena
Quem nasceu em Fresno, California?;Chris McNealy
Qual é o gentílico populacional de Fresno, California?;Fresnan
Qual é a área total de Fresno em quilômetros quadrados?;300,43
Qual é o nome do tribunal federal localizado em Fresno, California?;United States District Court for the Eastern District of California
Qual é o nome do festival localizado em Fresno, California?;The Big Fresno Fair
```