<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about oxygen. Let me start by reading through the context carefully to understand the key points.

The context mentions that oxygen is a chemical element with atomic number 8, symbol O. It's part of the chalcogens, a reactive nonmetal, and a strong oxidizing agent. It forms oxides with many elements, is the third most abundant in the universe, and makes up about 20.8% of Earth's atmosphere. It's essential for life, involved in cellular respiration, and has various applications like medical uses, industrial processes, and space exploration. The text also talks about its discovery by Scheele and Priestley, Lavoisier's role, and its different forms like ozone and liquid oxygen. There's info on its role in photosynthesis, the ozone layer, and environmental concerns like decreasing atmospheric levels due to fossil fuel emissions.

Now, looking at the facts provided, there are a lot of additional details like Wikipedia templates, images, products, and other categories. However, the main context is about oxygen's properties, discovery, uses, and environmental impact.

I need to create 10 varied questions covering different aspects. Let me list possible topics:

1. Discovery of oxygen (Scheele and Priestley)
2. Atomic structure (number, symbol, etc.)
3. Role in the atmosphere and Earth's crust
4. Uses in industry and medicine
5. Chemical properties (reactivity, oxidation)
6. Environmental impact (levels decreasing)
7. Ozone layer and UV protection
8. Role in photosynthesis and life
9. Physical states and forms (liquid, solid)
10. Historical significance (Lavoisier's contribution)

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check the context again to confirm the facts for each question. For example, the atomic number is 8, symbol O. The atmosphere composition is 20.8%, and it's the third most abundant in the universe. The ozone layer's role in UV protection is mentioned. The discovery by Scheele in 1773 and Priestley in 1774, with Priestley being credited first. Lavoisier's naming and debunking the phlogiston theory. Applications in medical oxygen therapy, industrial uses, and space. The environmental impact due to fossil fuels. Physical states like liquid and solid being blue. The role in photosynthesis leading to oxygen accumulation 2.5 billion years ago.

I need to make sure the answers are correct and directly from the context. Avoid repetition in question types. For instance, one question about discovery, another about atomic structure, another about atmosphere, etc. Let me structure each pair now.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o símbolo químico do oxigénio?;O
Qual é o número atómico do oxigénio?;8
Qual é a porcentagem do oxigénio na atmosfera terrestre?;20,8%
Qual é o elemento mais abundante na crosta terrestre?;Oxigénio
Quem descobriu o oxigénio primeiro?;Carl Wilhelm Scheele
Qual é a principal fonte de oxigénio na atmosfera?;Fotossíntese
Qual é a forma química do oxigénio em condições normais?;O2
Qual é o agente oxidante mais forte mencionado no texto?;Oxigénio
Por que o oxigénio é essencial para a vida terrestre?;Suporta a respiração celular e é componente de moléculas orgânicas
Qual é o fenômeno associado à diminuição dos níveis de oxigénio atmosférico?;Emissões de combustíveis fósseis
```