<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about British Satellite Broadcasting (BSB). Let me start by understanding the key points from the context and facts.

First, the context mentions that BSB was a UK-based satellite TV company, started in 1990, and merged with Sky Television to form BSkyB. The facts include various details like its founding year (1986), location (London, Marco Polo House), ownership of TV channels like The Movie Channel, Galaxy, and The Power Station, and its merger in 1990. Also, there are mentions of its Wikipedia page models, categories, and other classifications.

Now, I need to create questions that cover different aspects without repetition. Let me list possible questions:

1. When was BSB founded? (Answer: 1986)
2. Where is BSB located? (Answer: London)
3. Which TV channel is owned by BSB? (Answer: Galaxy)
4. What company did BSB merge with? (Answer: Sky Television)
5. What was BSB's main service? (Answer: Direct broadcast satellite services)
6. What is BSB's full name? (Answer: British Satellite Broadcasting plc)
7. Which film was produced by BSB? (Answer: Hardware)
8. What category does BSB fall under? (Answer: Mass media companies established in 1986)
9. When did BSB start broadcasting? (Answer: 25 March 1990)
10. What is BSB's successor company? (Answer: BSkyB)

I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different facts. Let me check if all answers are explicitly stated or can be inferred from the context. For example, the founding year is 1986, location is London, and the merger led to BSkyB. Also, the TV channels listed are Galaxy, The Movie Channel, etc. Films like Hardware and Memphis Belle are mentioned. Categories include the ones listed. The successor is BSkyB. The full name is British Satellite Broadcasting plc. 

I should make sure the answers are correct and directly from the provided facts. Now, format them into CSV pairs, using semicolons, and ensure no extra text is included.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quando foi fundada a British Satellite Broadcasting?;1986
Onde está localizada a British Satellite Broadcasting?;London
Qual canal de televisão é propriedade da British Satellite Broadcasting?;Galaxy
Com qual empresa a British Satellite Broadcasting se fundiu?;Sky Television
Qual foi o serviço principal da British Satellite Broadcasting?;Direct broadcast satellite services
Qual é o nome completo da British Satellite Broadcasting?;British Satellite Broadcasting plc
Qual filme foi produzido pela British Satellite Broadcasting?;Hardware
Qual categoria a British Satellite Broadcasting pertence?;Mass media companies established in 1986
Quando a British Satellite Broadcasting começou a transmitir?;25 de março de 1990
Qual foi a empresa sucessora da British Satellite Broadcasting?;BSkyB
```