<think>
Okay, the user wants me to generate 10 CSV question-answer pairs based on the geology context provided. Let me start by recalling the key points from the context given. The context is about geology, so I need to make sure the questions cover various aspects like rock types, geological processes, famous structures, and historical figures.

First, I should list out different topics within geology. For example, types of rocks (igneous, sedimentary, metamorphic), geological processes like erosion, tectonic plates, famous landmarks like the Grand Canyon, and maybe some historical figures like James Hutton. 

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different areas. Let me think of 10 distinct topics. Maybe start with the three main rock types. Then move to erosion processes, tectonic plates, the Grand Canyon's formation, the theory of uniformitarianism, the Moho discontinuity, the formation of metamorphic rocks, the role of sedimentary rocks, the Ring of Fire, and the first person to propose the Earth's age through geological processes.

For each topic, I'll craft a question that asks for a specific detail. For example, "Qual é o principal tipo de rocha formado por processos de solidificação do magma?" which would be igneous. Another could be about the process that shapes landscapes over time, which is erosion. 

I need to make sure the answers are correct based on the context. Since the context is limited, I'll rely on general geology knowledge. For instance, the Moho discontinuity is the boundary between the crust and mantle. The Ring of Fire is associated with volcanic activity around the Pacific. 

Wait, the user mentioned to base the questions solely on the provided context. But the context here is just "Geologia" in Portuguese. That might be an issue because without specific details, the questions might be too general. However, the user might expect standard geology facts. Let me proceed with that assumption.

Now, structuring each pair as per the CSV format. Ensure the separator is a semicolon. Check for repetition in questions. For example, making sure not to ask about rock types multiple times. Also, ensure each answer is directly inferable from the context or standard knowledge.

Let me list out the 10 pairs:

1. Principal tipo de rocha formada por solidificação do magma: Igneous.
2. Processo que modela paisagens ao longo do tempo: Erosão.
3. Estrutura formada por movimento de placas tectônicas: Montanhas.
4. Principal causa da formação do Grand Canyon: Erosão fluvial.
5. Teoria que afirma que processos atuais explicam fenômenos geológicos: Uniformitarianismo.
6. Discontinuidade que marca a fronteira entre a crosta e o manto: Moho.
7. Tipo de rocha formada por pressão e temperatura: Metamórfica.
8. Função dos sedimentos em rochas sedimentares: Armazenar registros do passado.
9. Região com alta atividade vulcânica: Anel do Fogo.
10. Primeiro a propôs a idade da Terra através de processos geológicos: James Hutton.

Now, I need to verify that each answer is correct and the questions are distinct. Also, ensure the language is in Portuguese and the format is strictly CSV with semicolons. No extra text or explanations. Alright, that should cover 10 varied questions and answers.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o principal tipo de rocha formado por processos de solidificação do magma?;Igneous
Qual é o processo que modela paisagens ao longo do tempo?;Erosão
Qual é a estrutura formada por movimento de placas tectônicas?;Montanhas
Qual é a principal causa da formação do Grand Canyon?;Erosão fluvial
Qual é a teoria que afirma que processos atuais explicam fenômenos geológicos?;Uniformitarianismo
Qual é a discontinuidade que marca a fronteira entre a crosta e o manto?;Moho
Qual é o tipo de rocha formada por pressão e temperatura elevada?;Metamórfica
Qual é a função dos sedimentos em rochas sedimentares?;Armazenar registros do passado
Qual é a região com alta atividade vulcânica?;Anel do Fogo
Quem foi o primeiro a propôs a idade da Terra através de processos geológicos?;James Hutton
```