<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 objective questions in Portuguese related to geology, with answers in CSV format separated by semicolons. They provided the context "Geologia" and some rules. 

First, I need to make sure the questions are diverse and cover different aspects of geology. Let me brainstorm possible topics: rock types, geological time scale, tectonic plates, minerals, processes like erosion, famous geological formations, seismic activity, volcanoes, sedimentation, and maybe some key terms.

I need to ensure each question has a single correct answer, either explicit or inferable. Since the context is just "Geologia," I might have to rely on general geology facts. For example, types of rocks, the structure of the Earth, common minerals, etc.

Let me start listing possible questions. 

1. What are the three main types of rocks? Answer: Igneous, sedimentary, metamorphic.
2. What process forms igneous rocks? Answer: Cooling and solidification of magma.
3. What is the primary component of sedimentary rocks? Answer: Mineral and organic particles.
4. What is the name of the Earth's outermost layer? Answer: Crust.
5. What geological process involves the movement of tectonic plates? Answer: Plate tectonics.
6. What type of rock is marble? Answer: Metamorphic.
7. What is the hardest natural mineral? Answer: Diamond.
8. What is the term for the process of rock breaking down? Answer: Weathering.
9. What is the name of the layer beneath the crust? Answer: Mantle.
10. What type of rock forms from volcanic activity? Answer: Igneous.

Wait, need to check if these are all covered in general geology. Maybe adjust some. For example, the Earth's layers: crust, mantle, core. So the answer for question 9 would be mantle. Also, the hardest mineral is diamond. Sedimentary rocks are formed from sediments. Yes, these are standard facts.

I should also make sure the questions are in Portuguese. Let me translate them properly. For example, "Tipos de rochas" for types of rocks. "Formação de rochas ígneas" for igneous rock formation. 

Double-check the answers to ensure they are correct. For example, metamorphic rocks are formed by heat and pressure, so marble is a metamorphic rock. Yes. The Earth's crust is the outermost layer. Plate tectonics involve the movement of tectonic plates. 

Now, structure each question and answer pair, ensuring they are in Portuguese and separated by semicolons. Make sure there are exactly 10 pairs, no repetition, and each answer is directly related to the context.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quais são os três principais tipos de rochas na geologia?;rochas ígneas, sedimentares e metamórficas
Qual é o processo que forma as rochas ígneas?;solidificação do magma ou lava
Qual é o componente principal das rochas sedimentares?;partículas minerais e orgânicas transportadas e depositadas
Qual é o nome da camada mais externa da Terra?;crosta terrestre
Qual é o processo geológico responsável pelo movimento das placas tectônicas?;tectônica de placas
Qual tipo de rocha é formado por metamorfismo de rochas preexistentes?;rochas metamórficas
Qual é o mineral mais duro encontrado na natureza?;diamante
Qual é o termo que descreve o processo de decomposição das rochas?;intemperismo
Qual é o nome da camada localizada imediatamente abaixo da crosta terrestre?;manto terrestre
Qual tipo de rocha se forma a partir da atividade vulcânica?;rochas ígneas
```