<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about the Scottish Parliament. Let me start by understanding the content.

First, the context mentions that the Scottish Parliament is unicameral, located in Holyrood, Edinburgh, with 129 MSPs elected every four years using a mixed proportional system. It was established in 1999 after the Scotland Act 1998, and the last election was in 2016. There's also historical info about the union with England in 1707.

Now, the facts list various details: number of members (129), location (Edinburgh), leaders like the Presiding Officer and First Minister, constituencies, parties, committees, and more. Some entries mention specific constituencies, parties, and dates like the last election in 2021-05-06. Also, there are references to the Scottish Government, roles of Cabinet Secretaries, and various committees.

I need to create 10 questions and answers. Each question should be distinct and cover different aspects. Let me list possible topics:

1. Number of members (129)
2. Location (Edinburgh, Scottish Parliament Building)
3. Type of legislature (unicameral)
4. Last election date (2021-05-06)
5. Leader (Presiding Officer, First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon)
6. Electoral system (mixed proportional)
7. Establishment date (1999)
8. Historical context (Union of 1707)
9. Committees (e.g., Transport, Health and Sport)
10. Political parties (Scottish National Party, Liberal Democrats, etc.)

Now, I need to phrase each question clearly and ensure the answer is directly from the facts. Avoid repetition. Let me check each fact to confirm accuracy.

For example, the number of members is 129, so a question could be "Quantos membros compõem o Parlamento Escocês?" with answer "129".

Location is Edinburgh, so "Onde está localizado o Parlamento Escocês?" → "Edimburgo, Escócia".

Type is unicameral: "O Parlamento Escocês é do tipo?" → "WikicatUnicameralLegislatures" or "Unicameral".

Last election date is 2021-05-06. Need to confirm if the fact says that. Yes, under "Scottish Parliament possui data da última eleição 2021-05-06".

Leader: The Presiding Officer is a leader type, and the First Minister is also mentioned. The current leader is Nicola Sturgeon, but the fact says "Scottish Parliament possui líder Alison Johnstone" and "Scottish Parliament possui líder Nicola Sturgeon" – need to check. Wait, the facts list multiple leaders, so maybe the answer is "Alison Johnstone" or "Nicola Sturgeon". Wait, in the context, it says "A atual presidente é ." but the actual name is missing. However, the facts mention "Scottish Parliament possui líder Alison Johnstone" and "Scottish Parliament possui líder Nicola Sturgeon". Maybe there are multiple leaders, but the correct answer might be "Alison Johnstone" as per the fact. Need to verify.

Committees: "Scottish Parliament possui comissões na legislatura Transport in the United Kingdom" → answer "Transport in the United Kingdom".

Political parties: "Scottish National Party possui título do assento 2 Scottish Parliament" → answer "Scottish National Party".

I need to make sure each answer is correctly extracted from the facts. Now, compiling the 10 pairs in CSV format, ensuring they are in Portuguese and properly separated by semicolons.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quantos membros compõem o Parlamento Escocês?;129
Onde está localizado o Parlamento Escocês?;Edimburgo, Escócia
Qual é o tipo de legislação do Parlamento Escocês?;WikicatUnicameralLegislatures
Qual foi a data da última eleição para o Parlamento Escocês?;2021-05-06
Qual é o cargo que responde ao Parlamento Escocês?;First Minister of Scotland
Qual é o sistema eleitoral utilizado no Parlamento Escocês?;Sistema de representação proporcional mista
Quando foi estabelecido o Parlamento Escocês?;1999
Qual foi a data da fusão da Escócia com o Reino da Inglaterra?;1707
Quais são algumas das comissões do Parlamento Escocês?;Transport in the United Kingdom
Quais são algumas das partidas associadas ao Parlamento Escocês?;Scottish National Party
```