<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about Warsaw. Let me start by understanding the content thoroughly.

First, the context gives a general overview of Warsaw: it's the capital of Poland, located on the Vistula River, population stats, historical events like the WWII destruction and reconstruction, UNESCO status, and various cultural and economic aspects. The facts list a lot of specific details, including people born or died in Warsaw, locations, events, and other data like weather statistics and sports events.

The user wants 10 pairs of questions and answers in CSV format, each with a unique and varied question. The questions must be directly related to the content, and the answers must be explicitly or inferably from the text. No repetition of similar questions.

Let me start by identifying key aspects from the context and facts. The context mentions historical events, UNESCO status, population, and cultural institutions. The facts include people associated with Warsaw, locations, sports events, and weather data.

I need to ensure each question is distinct. For example, one question could be about the UNESCO status, another about the population, another about the nickname "Phoenix City," and so on. From the facts, there are many names of people born or died in Warsaw, locations like the Sigismund's Column, and sports events.

I should avoid repeating questions about the same topic. For instance, if I ask about the population, another question could be about the nickname. Then, using the facts, I can ask about specific people, locations, or events. Also, some facts mention weather data, like precipitation in March or humidity in September.

I need to make sure each answer is correct and directly from the context or facts. For example, the answer to "What is the nickname of Warsaw due to its reconstruction?" would be "Phoenix City." Another could be about the UNESCO designation, which is "Patrimônio da Humanidade."

Let me check for variety. Maybe include questions about historical events, people, cultural landmarks, sports, weather, and administrative details. Ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects.

Now, I'll structure the CSV pairs accordingly, making sure each has a question and the correct answer, separated by semicolons. Let me verify that each answer is indeed present in the provided content and that the questions are varied and not repeated.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a capital da Polónia?;Varsóvia
Qual é o rio que corta Varsóvia?;Vístula
Quantos habitantes Varsóvia tinha em 2012?;1 716 855
Qual é o nome da coluna localizada em Varsóvia?;Coluna de Sigismundo
Qual é o título dado a Varsóvia após a Segunda Guerra Mundial?;Phoenix City
Qual é a sede da Frontex?;Varsóvia
Qual é a classificação de Varsóvia como cidade mais habitável em 2012?;32ª cidade mais habitável do mundo
Qual é o nome do maior Teatro Nacional do mundo localizado em Varsóvia?;Teatro Nacional
Qual é o nome do monumento que faz parte do Patrimônio da Humanidade em Varsóvia?;Centro Histórico de Varsóvia
Qual é o lema de Varsóvia?;Semper invicta
```