<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about the Yuan Dynasty. Let me start by understanding the context. The Yuan Dynasty was founded by Kublai Khan in 1271, and it lasted until 1368. It's a Mongol dynasty that ruled China.

First, I should look through the facts provided to identify key points. The facts mention various events, people, dates, and locations related to the Yuan Dynasty. For example, Kublai Khan is the founder, the dynasty ended in 1368, there are specific battles like the Battle of Xiangyang, and notable figures like Temür Khan and Princess Bokguk. Also, there are images, categories, and other details.

I need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me list possible questions. For instance, one could be about the founder, another about the end year, another about the capital, etc. I should check for variety and avoid repeating the same type of question.

Let me start drafting the questions and answers. The first question could be about who founded the Yuan Dynasty. The answer would be Kublai Khan. Next, the year it was established is 1271. Then, the capital cities like Shangdu and Khanbaliq. The end year is 1368. The dynasty's type is a country or a former country. There are battles like the Battle of Xiangyang and the Red Turban Rebellion. Also, notable people like Temür Khan and Princess Bokguk. Some facts mention images and categories, but maybe those are less relevant for the questions. I need to make sure each answer is directly inferable from the facts provided.

Wait, the user wants the questions to be based on the context and facts given. So I should focus on the key points. Let me check the facts again. For example, the dynasty was dissolved in 1368, the capital was Shangdu, and there are specific events like the Mongol conquest of the Song dynasty. Also, some figures died during the dynasty, like Emperor Gong of Song. 

I need to ensure that each question is distinct and covers different aspects. Let me count the possible questions. Let's see:

1. Founder of Yuan Dynasty
2. Year of establishment
3. Capital cities
4. End year
5. Type of entity
6. Notable battle (Battle of Xiangyang)
7. Notable figure (Temür Khan)
8. Event related (Red Turban Rebellion)
9. Notable person who died (Emperor Gong of Song)
10. Another notable figure (Princess Bokguk)

That should cover 10 different aspects. Now, I need to phrase each question clearly and ensure the answers are correct based on the facts. Let me verify each point against the provided facts. For example, the capital is mentioned as Shangdu and Khanbaliq. The end year is 1368. The dynasty is of type Country and WikicatFormerCountriesInChineseHistory. The Red Turban Rebellion is an event related to the dynasty. Temür Khan is mentioned as part of the dynasty. Emperor Gong of Song died during the Yuan. Princess Bokguk was born in the Yuan dynasty. 

I need to format each as a CSV pair, ensuring the separator is a semicolon. Let me structure each line correctly. Also, check for any possible repetition or similar questions. Once all 10 are ready, I can present them in the required CSV format.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quem fundou a Dinastia Yuan?;Kublai Khan
Em que ano a Dinastia Yuan foi formalmente estabelecida?;1271
Quais foram as capitais da Dinastia Yuan?;Shangdu e Khanbaliq
Em que ano a Dinastia Yuan foi dissolvida?;1368
Qual é o tipo de entidade da Dinastia Yuan?;Country
Qual batalha está relacionada à Dinastia Yuan?;Battle of Xiangyang
Quem pertence à Dinastia Yuan?;Temür Khan
Qual evento ocorreu durante a Dinastia Yuan?;Red Turban Rebellion
Quem morreu durante a Dinastia Yuan?;Emperor Gong of Song
Quem nasceu durante a Dinastia Yuan?;Princess Bokguk
```