<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 objective questions and answers in Portuguese based on the context of economic inequality. The user provided specific rules, so I have to make sure each question is unique, covers different aspects of the topic, and has a single correct answer derived from the given content.

First, I'll brainstorm different aspects of economic inequality. Topics could include definitions, causes, effects, measures, historical context, global examples, solutions, etc. Since the content provided is just the context name "Desigualdade_econômica" without specific details, I'll have to make assumptions based on common knowledge about the topic.

I need to ensure that each question is clear and directly related to economic inequality. For example, one question could be about the Gini coefficient, another about the main causes. Each answer should be a concise fact or term.

I should avoid repeating similar questions. Let me check for variety: causes, effects, measures, countries with high inequality, historical aspects, solutions, role of education, tax policies, impact on health, and social mobility. That seems varied enough.

Now, formulating each pair. Let's start with a definition question. Then move to causes, effects, measurement, examples, historical context, policies, education's role, health impact, and social mobility. Each answer should be a specific term or fact.

Make sure the separator is a semicolon, and the language is Portuguese. No explanations, just the CSV format. Let me count to 10 to ensure I have exactly 10 pairs. Check for any possible repetitions or off-topic questions. All set.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o principal indicador utilizado para medir a desigualdade econômica globalmente?;Coeficiente de Gini
Qual fator está diretamente associado ao aumento da desigualdade entre 1980 e 2010?;Globalização
Qual consequência social é frequentemente relacionada à desigualdade econômica?;Redução da esperança de vida
Qual país tem o maior coeficiente de Gini registrado no mundo?;Zimbábue
Qual política pública é comumente proposta para reduzir desigualdades?;Imposto progressivo
Qual teoria econômica defende que a desigualdade estimula a inovação?;Economia neoliberal
Qual evento histórico está ligado a um aumento da desigualdade no Brasil?;Implementação do Plano Real
Qual região do mundo tem os menores níveis de desigualdade econômica?;Nórdicos
Qual impacto da desigualdade é visível no sistema educacional?;Acesso desigual a escolas de qualidade
Qual instituição internacional monitora os níveis de desigualdade globalmente?;Organização das Nações Unidas
```