<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs in CSV format based on the Yuan Dynasty context. Let me start by recalling what I know about the Yuan Dynasty.

First, the Yuan Dynasty was established by Kublai Khan, right? So a question could be about who founded it. The answer would be Kublai Khan. That's one pair.

Next, the capital city. I remember that Dadu was the capital, which is now Beijing. So another question about the capital city.

The ruling class was the Mongols, so a question about who ruled the Yuan Dynasty. Answer: Mongols.

The administrative system had a system of provinces called "provinces" or "dukes." Wait, maybe the correct term is "dukes" or "provincial administrations." Let me check. The Yuan had a system where the empire was divided into provinces, each ruled by a governor. So the question could be about the administrative structure.

The Mongol Empire's successor state. The Yuan Dynasty was the successor to the Mongol Empire, so a question about that.

Cultural contributions: The Yuan Dynasty was known for the Yuan Zaju, which is a form of drama. So a question about cultural achievements.

Religious tolerance: The Yuan Dynasty was known for its tolerance towards different religions, including Buddhism, Islam, Christianity, and Taoism. So a question about religious policies.

Economic policies: The Yuan Dynasty used paper money as a major currency. So a question about the currency.

The fall of the Yuan Dynasty: It was overthrown by the Ming Dynasty in 1368. So a question about its end.

Military campaigns: The Yuan Dynasty expanded the Mongol Empire's reach, including parts of Southeast Asia and Eastern Europe. So a question about military expansion.

Wait, I need to make sure each question is distinct and covers different aspects. Let me verify each point to ensure accuracy. Also, avoid repeating similar questions. Let me structure the CSV with these points, making sure the answers are correct and the questions are varied.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Quem fundou a Dinastia Yuan?;Kublai Khan
Qual era a capital da Dinastia Yuan?;Dadu (atual Beijing)
Qual era a origem étnica dos governantes da Dinastia Yuan?;Mongóis
Qual era o sistema administrativo principal da Dinastia Yuan?;Divisão do império em províncias governadas por oficiais designados
Qual era o nome do estado que sucedeu o Império Mongol?;Dinastia Yuan
Qual era uma contribuição cultural destacada da Dinastia Yuan?;O desenvolvimento do Yuan Zaju (teatro chinês)
Qual era a política religiosa da Dinastia Yuan?;Tolerância a diferentes religiões, incluindo budismo, islamismo, cristianismo e taoísmo
Qual era a moeda principal utilizada durante a Dinastia Yuan?;Papel-moeda
Qual dinastia substituiu a Dinastia Yuan?;Dinastia Ming
Quais regiões foram ampliadas durante o governo da Dinastia Yuan?;Partes da Ásia Sudeste e Europa Oriental
```