<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about the IPCC. Let me start by understanding the content thoroughly. The context explains that the IPCC is a scientific body under the UN, established in 1988 by UNEP and WMO. It synthesizes climate change research, doesn't conduct original research, and has produced several reports. It was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007. The facts list various properties, like its abbreviation (IPCC), headquarters in Geneva, members like Hoesung Lee, and associated organizations like WMO and UNEP.

First, I should identify key aspects from the context and facts. The main points include the IPCC's purpose, structure, affiliated organizations, key figures, reports, awards, and operational details. I need to create varied questions covering these areas. Let me list possible questions:

1. What is the full name of the IPCC? (Answer: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)
2. Which organization is the IPCC part of? (Answer: United Nations Environment Programme and World Meteorological Organization)
3. When was the IPCC established? (Answer: 1988)
4. What is the headquarters location of the IPCC? (Answer: Geneva, Switzerland)
5. Who is the current leader of the IPCC? (Answer: Hoesung Lee)
6. Which award did the IPCC receive in 2007? (Answer: Nobel Peace Prize)
7. What is the primary role of the IPCC? (Answer: Synthesize and disseminate knowledge on climate change)
8. What is the abbreviation for the IPCC? (Answer: IPCC)
9. Which report was authored by the IPCC? (Answer: Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation)
10. What type of entity is the IPCC classified as? (Answer: Organization)

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Check for repetition and correctness. For example, the question about the abbreviation is covered, and the answer is directly from the facts. The establishment year is 1988, which is in the context. The headquarters is Geneva. The leader is Hoesung Lee. The award is the Nobel Peace Prize. The primary role is synthesizing research. The report example is Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation. The entity type is Organization.

I should also verify that all answers are explicitly stated or can be inferred from the provided facts. For instance, the answer to the report question is mentioned in the facts as "Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation possui autor Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change." 

Make sure the CSV format is correct with semicolons and no extra text. Each pair should be concise and directly related to the content. Avoid any questions that are too similar. For example, asking about the headquarters and the parent organizations are distinct. 

Double-check that all answers are accurate based on the context and facts provided. No markdown, just plain text in CSV format. Alright, that should cover 10 varied and correct pairs.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é o nome completo do IPCC?;Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
Quais são as organizações-mãe do IPCC?;United Nations Environment Programme e World Meteorological Organization
Em que ano o IPCC foi criado?;1988
Onde está localizada a sede do IPCC?;Geneva, Switzerland
Quem é o líder atual do IPCC?;Hoesung Lee
Qual prêmio o IPCC recebeu em 2007?;Prêmio Nobel da Paz
Qual é a função principal do IPCC?;Sintetizar e divulgar o conhecimento sobre mudanças climáticas
Qual é a abreviação do IPCC?;IPCC
Qual relatório foi autorizado pelo IPCC?;Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation
Qual tipo de entidade o IPCC é classificado?;Organização
```