<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 CSV pairs based on the provided context and facts about Imperialism. Let me start by understanding the content.

The context explains that an empire is a large territory governed by a sovereign, often through conquest, with a central authority controlling peripheries. The term "Imperialism" is discussed in various contexts, including cultural, political theories, and historical events. There are mentions of specific books, models, images, and related topics like the Herero and Namaqua genocide, Japanese war crimes, and the Portuguese Empire.

Looking at the facts, there are multiple entries about different aspects of Imperialism. For example, "Culture and Imperialism" is a book, "Imperialism" is a category under political theories, and there are several images associated with it. Also, some political parties and individuals are linked to Imperialism, like the Progressive Party (Cape Colony) and Wolfgang Mommsen.

I need to create 10 varied questions. Let me brainstorm possible questions:

1. What is the primary definition of an empire according to the text?
2. Which book is associated with the subject of Imperialism?
3. What is the term used for the central authority in an empire?
4. Which historical event is linked to Imperialism as a motivation?
5. What is the main topic covered by the category "Category:Imperialism"?
6. Which image represents the Portuguese Empire's historical extent?
7. What model is used for the page on Imperialism in Wikipedia?
8. Which political party is associated with the ideology of Imperialism?
9. What is the term for the practice of extending a nation's power through conquest?
10. Which individual is linked to the study of Imperialism?

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and the answers are directly from the facts provided. Let me check the facts again to verify:

- The first question's answer is the definition from the context.
- "Culture and Imperialism" is mentioned as a book.
- The central authority is the metropolis.
- Herero and Namaqua genocide has Imperialism as motivation.
- The category "Category:Imperialism" is a subject.
- The Portuguese Empire image is listed.
- The Template:Empires model is used.
- Progressive Party (Cape Colony) has Imperialism as ideology.
- The term is Imperialism itself.
- Wolfgang Mommsen is linked to the discipline.

I should format each as CSV, making sure the separator is a semicolon and the language is Portuguese. Let me structure each pair accordingly.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a definição primária de um império segundo o texto?;Um império é uma "unidade política" composta por vários territórios e povos, normalmente criada por conquista, e dividida entre um centro dominante e periferias subordinadas.
Qual livro está associado ao assunto Imperialism?;Culture and Imperialism
Qual é o termo para a centralidade de controle em um império?;metrópole
Qual evento histórico é vinculado à motivação Imperialism?;Herero and Namaqua genocide
Qual é o tópico principal da categoria "Category:Imperialism"?;Imperialism
Qual imagem representa a extensão histórica do Império Português?;All areas of the world that were once part of the Portuguese Empire.png
Qual modelo de página wiki é usado para Imperialism?;Template:Empires
Qual partido político está associado à ideologia Imperialism?;Progressive Party (Cape Colony)
Qual é o termo para a prática de extender o poder de um país por conquista?;Imperialism
Qual indivíduo está ligado ao estudo de Imperialism?;Wolfgang Mommsen
```