<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about the Rhine River. First, I need to understand the context and the facts given.

The main context is that the Rhine is a river in Europe, 1,233 km long, flowing from south to north into the North Sea. The facts include various details like tributaries, landmarks, bridges, nuclear plants, and other geographical features. 

The user provided examples of questions and answers, so I need to follow that structure. The examples include questions about where the river flows into, its length, names in different languages, etc. 

Now, I need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me list out possible questions based on the facts:

1. Where does the Rhine flow into? (North Sea)
2. What is the length of the Rhine? (1,233 km)
3. What is the German name for the Rhine? (Rhein)
4. Which country does the Rhine flow through? (Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, etc.)
5. What is the French name for the Rhine? (Rhin)
6. What is the English name for the Rhine? (Rhine)
7. What is the name of the river's source? (Tomasee, Surselva, Graubünden, Switzerland)
8. Which bridges cross the Rhine? (Kennedy Bridge, Ludendorff Bridge, etc.)
9. What is the origin of the name Rhine? (Gaulish Rēnos)
10. What is the type of the Rhine according to the given data? (RiverBodyOfWater)

Wait, some of these might overlap. Let me check the facts again. The facts mention several bridges like Kennedy Bridge, Ludendorff Bridge, and others. Also, the river's source is mentioned as Tomasee in Switzerland. The length is 1,233 km. The German name is Rhein, French is Rhin. The river flows into the North Sea. The type is RiverBodyOfWater. 

I need to make sure each question is distinct. Let's structure them properly. Also, the examples have answers like "ar do Norte" which might be a typo for "mar do Norte" (North Sea). So, I'll correct that. 

Now, compiling the 10 questions, making sure they are varied and each has a unique correct answer based on the provided data. Let me verify each answer against the facts to ensure accuracy.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Onde o Reno deságua?;mar do Norte
Qual é o comprimento do rio Reno?;1 233 km
Qual é o nome alemão do rio Reno?;Rhein
Qual é o nome francês do rio Reno?;Rhin
Qual é a origem do nome do rio Reno?;termo gaulês Rēnos
Quais são as sub-regiões associadas ao rio Reno?;Alemanha;Bélgica;Holanda;Suíça
Qual é o tipo de classificação do rio Reno?;RiverBodyOfWater
Quais rios deságuam no rio Reno?;Lahn;Emscher;Saar
Quais pontes cruzam o rio Reno?;Ludendorff Bridge;Kennedy Bridge (Bonn);Deutz Suspension Bridge
Quais são as localizações da foz do rio Reno?;Holanda;Bélgica;Alemanha
```