<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 CSV pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about Islamism. First, I need to understand the context thoroughly. The main points are that Islamism is a political-religious ideology aiming to implement Sharia, promote pan-Islamic unity, and reject Western influences. The facts list various groups and parties associated with Islamism, like Al Wefaq, Hizbul Mujahideen, and the Muslim Brotherhood.

Now, I need to create 10 diverse questions. Each question should cover different aspects of the context and facts. Let me start by identifying key elements: definition, goals, associated groups, rejection of Western influence, implementation of Sharia, pan-Islamic unity, and specific examples.

First question could be about the definition of Islamism. Then, another on the main goals. Next, mention specific groups like Hizbul Mujahideen. Also, include the rejection of Western influences. Maybe ask about the implementation of Sharia. Since there are many groups listed, I can ask about examples in different regions. Also, the context mentions pan-Islamic unity, so a question on that. The facts include various parties, so a question about the Muslim Brotherhood. Also, the rejection of Western economic and cultural influences. Lastly, the image associated with Islamism, like the Taliban flag. 

Wait, the user specified 10 pairs. Let me check if I have enough unique aspects. Let me list the questions:

1. Definition of Islamism.
2. Main goals.
3. Rejection of Western influence.
4. Implementation of Sharia.
5. Pan-Islamic unity.
6. Example groups (like Hizbul Mujahideen).
7. Specific party (Muslim Brotherhood).
8. Rejection of Western economic/cultural influences.
9. Image associated with Islamism.
10. Another example group (Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent).

Now, I need to ensure each question is distinct and covers different aspects. Check the facts to confirm the examples. For instance, Hizbul Mujahideen is listed, as well as Al-Qaeda in the Indian subcontinent. Also, the Taliban flag is mentioned as an image. The Muslim Brotherhood is explicitly noted. The pan-Islamic unity is a key point from the context. 

Each answer should be directly from the context or facts. For example, the answer to the first question would be the definition given. For the group examples, the answer would be the specific group name. 

I need to avoid repeating questions. Make sure each question is unique. Also, check that the answers are accurate based on the provided data. Once all questions are framed, format them into CSV as specified, ensuring the separator is a semicolon and no extra text is included.
</think>

```csv
pergunta;resposta
Qual é a definição de Islamismo segundo o contexto fornecido?;Islamismo é uma ideologia político-religiosa que busca concretizar a interpretação ideológica do Islã no contexto do Estado ou da sociedade.
Quais são os principais objetivos dos partidários do Islamismo?;Implementar a xaria, promover a unidade política pan-islâmica, criar Estados islâmicos e rejeitar influências não-muçulmanas, especialmente ocidentais.
Quais grupos são associados ao Islamismo segundo os fatos apresentados?;Al Wefaq, 19th Division (Syrian rebel group), Movement for Democracy in Algeria, Hefazat-e-Islam Bangladesh, Islamic Party (Egypt), entre outros.
Qual é a posição do Islamismo em relação às influências ocidentais?;Rejeita influências não-muçulmanas, particularmente ocidentais, econômicas, militares, políticas, sociais e culturais.
Quais são as características centrais do Islã segundo o contexto?;Implementação da xaria, unidade política pan-islâmica e rejeição de influências externas.
Quais organizações são listadas como exemplos de grupos islâmicos?;Al-Qaeda in the Indian subcontinent, Taliban, Hizbul Mujahideen, Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, Ansar al-Sharia (Libya).
Qual é a ideologia do Partido da União Islâmica (Pakistan)?;Islamismo.
Quais são as imagens representativas associadas ao Islamismo?;2012 Sydney Islamic protests.jpg, Flag of the Taliban.svg, Flag of Hamas.svg.
Qual é a relação entre o Islamismo e a luta contra o colonialismo ocidental?;Rejeita influências econômicas, militares e culturais ocidentais, buscando autonomia islâmica.
Quais movimentos são citados como exemplos de organizações islâmicas?;Hezbollah Afghanistan, East Turkestan Liberation Organization, Free Aceh Movement, Army of Islam (Gaza Strip).
```