<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about steam engines. Let me start by understanding the context. The main points are that steam engines are a type of thermal machine using vapor pressure, they follow thermodynamic laws, and they're still used today in nuclear reactors. The facts list a lot of ships and other entities that use steam engines, along with some images and categories.

First, I should identify key aspects from the context and facts. The context mentions the function of steam engines, their use in nuclear reactors, and the thermodynamic principles. The facts include various ships (like USS Ashuelot, USS Montauk, etc.) that use steam propulsion, images related to steam engines, and some historical figures like Thomas Newcomen.

I need to create varied questions. Let me think of different angles: what is a steam engine, how it works, its applications, historical context, examples of ships using it, related images, and maybe some technical terms. Since the user provided examples about the Rankine cycle and Thomas Newcomen, but the given facts don't mention those, I should focus on the provided content.

Looking at the facts, there are many ship names with steam propulsion. Maybe a question about which ships use steam engines. Also, some images like "Watt steam pumping engine.jpg" and "Oscillating cylinder.svg" could be used. Thomas Newcomen is mentioned as being known for steam engines. Also, the context says steam engines are still used in nuclear reactors.

Let me draft questions:

1. Which ships use steam propulsion? (List some examples)
2. What is the function of a steam engine?
3. What is an example of a steam engine image?
4. Who is known for steam engines?
5. What is the primary use of steam engines today?
6. What are some images associated with steam engines?
7. Which ship has steam propulsion as per the facts?
8. What is the fluid used in steam engines?
9. What is an example of a steam engine application in modern times?
10. What is the role of the steam engine in the context provided?

Now, I need to ensure each question is unique and the answers are directly from the context or facts. For example, the answer to question 1 could be "USS Ashuelot, USS Montauk, USS Stinger, etc." But the user's examples had specific answers, so I should check if the facts have specific instances.

Wait, the facts list many ships with steam propulsion. So a question could be "Which of the following ships use steam propulsion?" with a list of examples. However, the user wants 10 pairs, so maybe some questions about specific ships, images, and the inventor Thomas Newcomen.

Also, the context mentions that steam engines are used in nuclear reactors for electricity generation. So that's a valid point.

Let me structure the 10 pairs:

1. Pergunta: Quais navios possuem propulsão a vapor conforme os fatos fornecidos? Resposta: USS Ashuelot, USS Montauk, USS Stinger, USS East View, USS Zoraya, entre outros.

Wait, the answer should be concise. Maybe select a few examples. But the user examples have answers like "motor atmosférico," so perhaps the answer should be a specific example from the facts.

Alternatively, since the facts list many ships, maybe a question like "Qual navio possui propulsão a vapor segundo os fatos?" with an example like "USS Ashuelot."

But the user's examples had answers like "motor atmosférico," so maybe the answers should be specific and not lists. Let me check the examples again. The examples included specific answers like "motor atmosférico," "Thomas Newcomen," etc. So for the given facts, the answers should be specific instances.

So, for example:

Question: Qual navio possui propulsão a vapor conforme os fatos? Resposta: USS Ashuelot.

But the user might expect multiple ships, but since the answer is a single string, perhaps list some. However, the examples show that answers can be lists. For example, the first example's answer is "solar," which is a single word, but others like "combustão externa," which is a phrase.

So maybe the answer can be a list of ships separated by commas. However, the user's examples have answers like "motor atmosférico," which is a single term. Let me proceed carefully.

Another angle: the context says steam engines are used in nuclear reactors. So a question could be "Qual é uma aplicação moderna dos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Reatores nucleares.

Also, the facts mention "Watt steam pumping engine.jpg" and "Oscillating cylinder.svg" as images. So a question could be "Qual é um exemplo de imagem associada aos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Watt steam pumping engine.jpg.

Additionally, Thomas Newcomen is mentioned as being known for steam engines. So a question could be "Quem é conhecido por ter desenvolvido motores a vapor?" Resposta: Thomas Newcomen.

Another point: the context says steam engines are a type of thermal machine. So a question: "O que é um motor a vapor?" Resposta: Tipo de máquina térmica que utiliza a pressão do vapor.

Also, the context mentions they are used in nuclear reactors, so another question: "Qual é um uso atual dos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Geração de eletricidade em reatores nucleares.

Now, compiling 10 pairs, ensuring they are varied and answers are from the provided facts and context.

Let me check the facts again to find more specific information. The facts list many ships, images, and categories. For example, "Category:Energy conversion" and "Category:Steam engine applications" are mentioned.

So, possible questions:

1. Quais navios possuem propulsão a vapor conforme os fatos fornecidos?
   Resposta: USS Ashuelot, USS Montauk, USS Stinger, USS East View, USS Zoraya, entre outros.

But the answer should be concise. Maybe select a few examples.

Alternatively, use specific examples from the facts. For instance, "USS Ashuelot" is mentioned.

Another question: "Qual imagem está associada aos motores a vapor segundo os fatos?" Resposta: Watt steam pumping engine.jpg.

Another: "Qual é uma aplicação moderna dos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Reatores nucleares.

Another: "Quem é conhecido por ter desenvolvido motores a vapor?" Resposta: Thomas Newcomen.

Another: "O que é um motor a vapor?" Resposta: Tipo de máquina térmica que utiliza a pressão do vapor.

Another: "Qual é o fluido utilizado nos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Água.

Another: "Qual é o assunto da categoria mencionada nos fatos?" Resposta: Category:Energy conversion.

Another: "Qual é uma imagem associada aos motores a vapor?" Resposta: Oscillating cylinder.svg.

Another: "Qual é um navio que utiliza propulsão a vapor?" Resposta: USS Wyalusing.

Another: "Qual é uma aplicação dos motores a vapor além da navegação?" Resposta: Geração de eletricidade em reatores nucleares.

Now, compiling these into 10 pairs, ensuring each is distinct and answers are based on the provided data.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais navios possuem propulsão a vapor conforme os fatos fornecidos?",
    "resposta": "USS Ashuelot, USS Montauk, USS Stinger, USS East View, USS Zoraya"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual imagem está associada aos motores a vapor segundo os fatos?",
    "resposta": "Watt steam pumping engine.jpg"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é uma aplicação moderna dos motores a vapor?",
    "resposta": "Geração de eletricidade em reatores nucleares"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é conhecido por ter desenvolvido motores a vapor?",
    "resposta": "Thomas Newcomen"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que é um motor a vapor?",
    "resposta": "Tipo de máquina térmica que utiliza a pressão do vapor"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o fluido utilizado nos motores a vapor?",
    "resposta": "Água"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o assunto da categoria mencionada nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Category:Energy conversion"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é uma imagem associada aos motores a vapor?",
    "resposta": "Oscillating cylinder.svg"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é um navio que utiliza propulsão a vapor?",
    "resposta": "USS Wyalusing"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é uma aplicação dos motores a vapor além da navegação?",
    "resposta": "Geração de eletricidade em reatores nucleares"
  }
]