<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context about the 1973 oil crisis. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly.

The crisis began in October 1973 when OPEC members imposed an embargo on nations supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. The initial targets were Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, UK, and the US, later expanding to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. By March 1974, oil prices rose from $3 to about $12 globally, higher in the US. The embargo caused a "shock" leading to long-term effects. It's called the "first oil shock," followed by the 1979 crisis as the "second."

Now, I need to create 10 varied questions. Let me list possible angles:

1. When did the embargo start? (Already in examples, but maybe rephrase)
2. Who imposed the embargo? (Already covered)
3. What was the price increase? (Examples have this)
4. Which countries were initially targeted? (Examples have this)
5. What was the effect of the embargo? (Examples mention the shock)
6. What was the term for the crisis? (First oil shock)
7. When was the embargo lifted? (March 1974)
8. How did the US respond? (Maybe the Nixon administration's actions)
9. What was the impact on the US economy? (Price increase)
10. What was the cause of the embargo? (Yom Kippur War and supporting Israel)

Wait, the examples already have some of these. I need to avoid repetition. Let me check the examples provided:

The examples include questions about the start date, price in March 1974, the second crisis (1979), another term (first shock), who imposed it (OPEC members), why nations separated from the US (to avoid the boycott), Nixon's negotiation (Israel withdrawal), Kissinger's date (January 18, 1974), embargo lifting date (March 1974), and the US leaving Bretton Woods (August 15, 1971). 

So, I need to generate 10 unique questions. Let me think of others:

1. What was the initial target of the embargo?
2. What was the price of oil in the US by March 1974?
3. Which countries were added later to the embargo list?
4. What was the result of the embargo on the global economy?
5. What was the significance of the embargo in terms of oil prices?
6. Which event led to the embargo being imposed?
7. What was the impact of the embargo on international relations?
8. How did the embargo affect the US economy specifically?
9. What was the outcome of the embargo in terms of policy changes?
10. What was the name given to the 1973 crisis in the context of subsequent events?

Wait, some of these might overlap with existing examples. Let me ensure each question is distinct and covers different aspects. For example, the examples already cover the start date, price increase, the term "first shock," the embargo imposition, and the lifting date. 

Another angle: the effect on the US economy. Also, the countries added later (Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa). The reasons behind the embargo (supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War). The role of Nixon and Kissinger in negotiations. 

Let me structure 10 distinct questions:

1. Which countries were the initial targets of the OPEC embargo?
2. What was the price of oil in the US by March 1974?
3. Which countries were added to the embargo list later?
4. What was the primary cause of the 1973 oil crisis?
5. How did the embargo affect global oil prices?
6. What was the name given to the 1973 oil crisis?
7. When did the OPEC members lift the embargo?
8. What was the impact of the embargo on international relations?
9. What was the role of the Nixon administration in addressing the crisis?
10. What was the long-term effect of the embargo on the global economy?

Now, I need to ensure the answers are accurate based on the context. Let me check each:

1. Initial targets: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US.
2. US price: higher than $12, but the context says prices in the US were even higher. The example mentions "quase US $ 12" globally, but the US prices were higher. So the answer could be "mais altos que US$12".
3. Later countries: Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa.
4. Primary cause: Yom Kippur War, supporting Israel.
5. Effect on prices: Prices rose from $3 to $12 globally, US higher.
6. Name: First oil shock.
7. Lifted: March 1974.
8. Impact on relations: Strained relations, negotiations.
9. Nixon's role: Negotiations with Israel for withdrawal.
10. Long-term effect: Economic shifts, policies.

Now, formulating the questions and answers accordingly, ensuring they are distinct from the examples and cover different aspects.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram os países inicialmente alvos do embargo imposto pela OPEP?",
    "resposta": "Canadá, Japão, Países Baixos, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o preço do petróleo nos Estados Unidos em março de 1974?",
    "resposta": "Mais altos que US$ 12."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram incluídos no boicote posteriormente?",
    "resposta": "Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a causa principal da crise do petróleo de 1973?",
    "resposta": "A Guerra do Yom Kippur e o apoio ao Israel por parte de algumas nações."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como o embargo afetou os preços globais do petróleo?",
    "resposta": "Os preços subiram de US$ 3 para quase US$ 12 em março de 1974."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual era o nome dado à crise do petróleo de 1973 em contextos posteriores?",
    "resposta": "Primeiro choque do petróleo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando os membros da OPEP levantaram o embargo?",
    "resposta": "Março de 1974."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto do embargo nas relações internacionais?",
    "resposta": "Agravou tensões e levou a negociações para aliviar o conflito."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o papel do governo Nixon na crise do petróleo?",
    "resposta": "Negociou com a OPEP para evitar o boicote, incluindo acordos com Israel."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram os efeitos de longo prazo da crise no mercado global?",
    "resposta": "Mudanças nas políticas energéticas e maior dependência de fontes alternativas."
  }
]