<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let's start by understanding the context. The main topic is economic inequality, covering aspects like income distribution, wealth distribution, measures like Gini coefficient, and the effects of globalization. The facts provided include a lot of information about the structure of the Wikipedia page, related movements, scholars, and various images and categories.

First, I should focus on the context to form relevant questions. The context mentions the Gini coefficient as the most common measure, the HDI adjusted for inequality, the impact of globalization, and different types of inequality. The facts also mention specific movements like Occupy Berlin, scholars like Branko Milanović, and images like the GINI index graph. 

I need to ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let's list possible areas:
1. Measures of economic inequality (Gini, HDI adjusted).
2. Globalization's impact (reduced between countries but increased within them).
3. Types of inequality (income vs. wealth).
4. Social movements related to economic inequality (Occupy Wall Street, etc.).
5. Scholars/experts in the field (Branko Milanović, Richard G. Wilkinson).
6. Images and visual representations (e.g., GINI index graph).
7. Categories and classifications (WikicatSocialIssues, Category:Social inequality).
8. Specific examples of inequality (homelessness in LA, wealth disparity in cities).
9. Theoretical aspects (equity, equality of opportunity).
10. Effects of inequality on economic growth.

Now, I need to form 10 distinct questions. Let's start with the most obvious ones. The first example in the user's examples uses the Gini coefficient, but I can't repeat that. Let's check the facts again for specific data points. The facts mention "Economic inequality usa modelo de página wiki Template:Wealth" which might relate to wealth disparity. Also, there's an image "Income inequality - share of income earned by top 1% from 1975 to 2015.png" which could form a question about trends in income share.

Wait, the user's examples include questions with specific percentages and years, so I need to create similar factual questions. However, the provided context doesn't have specific numbers like the examples, but the facts might. For example, the user's example mentions "40%" for the top 1%, but in the context, it's stated that the Gini coefficient is the most common measure. However, the facts mention "Income inequality - share of income earned by top 1% from 1975 to 2015.png", which could be used to ask about trends.

But the user's examples have data not present in the given context or facts. Wait, the user provided their own examples, but the actual context here is different. The user's examples are just examples of the format, not to be replicated. So I need to create original questions based on the provided context and facts.

Let me go through the context again. The context says: "Existem muitos métodos para medir a desigualdade econômica, sendo o Coeficiente de Gini o mais utilizado." So a question could be about the most common measure. Answer: Coeficiente de Gini.

Another point: "Enquanto a globalização reduziu a desigualdade global (entre nações), aumentou a desigualdade dentro dos países." So a question could ask what globalization did to inequality between countries and within countries. Answer: Reduced between, increased within.

The context mentions "distribuição de renda" and "distribuição de riqueza". So a question could ask the difference between income and wealth distribution. Answer: Renda é a quantia recebida; riqueza é o que as pessoas possuem.

From the facts, "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa GINI index World Bank up to 2018.png" which could be used to ask about a visual representation of the Gini index. Answer: GINI index World Bank up to 2018.

Also, "Economic inequality é do tipo PsychologicalFeature100023100" – but that seems like a classification code. Maybe not relevant for a question unless it's part of a category. However, the user's examples don't use such classifications, so perhaps avoid unless there's a clear connection.

Another fact: "Economic inequality possui assunto Category:Social inequality" – could ask what category it's associated with. Answer: Category:Social inequality.

The facts mention several movements caused by economic inequality, like Occupy Berlin, Occupy Buffalo, etc. So a question could ask which movement is associated with economic inequality. Answer: Occupy Berlin.

Scholars like Branko Milanović and Richard G. Wilkinson are mentioned in the facts. A question could ask which scholar is associated with economic inequality. Answer: Branko Milanović.

The context mentions "conceitos importantes de igualdade incluem equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades." So a question could ask the concepts related to equality in the context of economic inequality. Answer: Equidade, igualdade de resultados, igualdade de oportunidades.

The context states that increased inequality hinders the duration of growth but not its rate. So a question could ask the effect of greater inequality on economic growth duration. Answer: Dificulta a duração do crescimento.

Another point from the context: "tipos importantes de medidas econômicas focam em riqueza, renda e consumo." A question could ask what are the main focuses of economic inequality measures. Answer: Riqueza, renda e consumo.

Also, the facts mention "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa The Manor, Holmby Hills, Los Angeles, in 2008.jpg" which could be used to ask about an example of wealth disparity. Answer: The Manor in Holmby Hills.

Wait, the user's examples include questions about specific percentages and years, but the provided context doesn't have those numbers. The user's examples might have been using different data. Since the current context doesn't provide specific stats, I need to rely on the information given. So the questions should be based on the text provided, not external data.

Let me compile all possible points:

1. Most common measure of economic inequality: Gini coefficient.
2. Globalization's effect: reduced between countries, increased within.
3. Difference between income and wealth distribution.
4. Category associated: Social inequality.
5. Movement caused by economic inequality: Occupy Berlin.
6. Scholar associated: Branko Milanović.
7. Concepts of equality: equity, equality of outcomes, opportunities.
8. Effect of inequality on growth duration: hinders duration but not rate.
9. Focus of economic inequality measures: wealth, income, consumption.
10. Example of wealth disparity: The Manor in Holmby Hills.

Now, phrasing these into questions and answers:

1. Pergunta: Qual é o método mais comum para medir a desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Coeficiente de Gini.

2. Pergunta: Como a globalização afeta a desigualdade entre países e dentro deles?
Resposta: Reduz a desigualdade entre países e aumenta a desigualdade dentro deles.

3. Pergunta: Qual a diferença entre distribuição de renda e distribuição de riqueza?
Resposta: A distribuição de renda refere-se à quantia de dinheiro recebida, enquanto a distribuição de riqueza refere-se aos bens que as pessoas possuem.

4. Pergunta: Qual categoria está associada à desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Category: Social inequality.

5. Pergunta: Qual movimento está associado à luta contra a desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Occupy Berlin.

6. Pergunta: Qual economista é associado à análise da desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Branko Milanović.

7. Pergunta: Quais são os conceitos importantes de igualdade mencionados no contexto da desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades.

8. Pergunta: Como a desigualdade econômica afeta a duração do crescimento econômico?
Resposta: Dificulta a duração do crescimento, mas não afeta a sua taxa.

9. Pergunta: Quais são os principais focos das medidas de desigualdade econômica?
Resposta: Riqueza, renda e consumo.

10. Pergunta: Qual é um exemplo de desigualdade de riqueza mencionado nos fatos?
Resposta: The Manor em Holmby Hills, Los Angeles.

I need to check if these questions are based on the provided context and facts. The context mentions the Gini coefficient, the effect of globalization, income vs. wealth, social inequality category, movements like Occupy Berlin, scholars like Branko Milanović, concepts of equality, the effect on growth duration, and the focus areas. The example about The Manor is from the facts.

Yes, these seem valid. Now, format them as per the user's example, with the question and answer in the same language (Portuguese, since the context is in Portuguese). Make sure the answers are concise and accurate based on the provided information.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o método mais comum para medir a desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Coeficiente de Gini."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a globalização afeta a desigualdade entre países e dentro deles?",
    "resposta": "Reduz a desigualdade entre países e aumenta a desigualdade dentro deles."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual a diferença entre distribuição de renda e distribuição de riqueza?",
    "resposta": "A distribuição de renda refere-se à quantia de dinheiro recebida, enquanto a distribuição de riqueza refere-se aos bens que as pessoas possuem."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual categoria está associada à desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Category: Social inequality."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual movimento está associado à luta contra a desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Occupy Berlin."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual economista é associado à análise da desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Branko Milanović."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os conceitos importantes de igualdade mencionados no contexto da desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Equidade, igualdade de resultados e igualdade de oportunidades."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a desigualdade econômica afeta a duração do crescimento econômico?",
    "resposta": "Dificulta a duração do crescimento, mas não afeta a sua taxa."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os principais focos das medidas de desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Riqueza, renda e consumo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é um exemplo de desigualdade de riqueza mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "The Manor em Holmby Hills, Los Angeles."
  }
]