<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context and the facts given.

The context talks about the immune system, its components, functions, and related concepts. It mentions the scientist Ilya Mechnikov, the different mechanisms like phagocytosis, defensins, complement system, and the adaptive immune response. It also discusses autoimmune diseases, immunodeficiency, and the role of various cells like T cells, B cells, macrophages, etc.

The facts list a bunch of terms related to the immune system, such as Basophil, T cell, B cell, Monocyte, Neutrophil, Dendritic cell, etc., and also mentions some models and images associated with the immune system. There are also mentions of other related fields like rheumatology, food allergies, and the use of templates in wiki pages.

Now, I need to create questions that are varied and cover different aspects. Let me start by listing possible topics: components of the immune system, functions, related diseases, historical context, models and images, and maybe some related fields.

First, I can ask about the scientist who coined the term "immune system." That's Ilya Mechnikov.

Next, the main components: T cell, B cell, macrophage, neutrophil, etc. So a question about which cells are part of the immune system.

Then, the immune system's role in diseases like sepsis and food allergies.

Also, the models used in wiki pages, like Template:Immune system or Template:Main.

Images related to the immune system, such as SEM blood cells.jpg or Macs killing cancer cell.jpg.

The difference between immunodeficiency and autoimmunity.

The use of vaccines in adaptive immunity.

The role of the lymphatic system in the immune system.

The historical context, like the origin of the term.

Also, the mention of rheumatology being related to the immune system.

I need to make sure the questions are unique and cover different aspects. Let me check each fact to see which ones I can use.

For example, the fact that "Sepsis tem como causa médica Immune system" can be a question about the cause of sepsis.

Another fact is "Food allergy tem como causa médica Immune system," so that's another question.

The fact that "Immune system usa modelo de página wiki Template:Immune system" can be a question about the wiki template used.

The image "Primary immune response 1.png" can be a question about an image related to the immune system.

The mention of "Rheumatology faz parte do sistema Immune system" can be a question about the specialty of rheumatology.

Also, "Langerhans cell faz parte do sistema Immune system" is a question about a specific cell type.

The fact that "Immune system é do tipo Thing" might be a question about the category of the immune system.

I need to make sure each question is distinct and based on the facts provided. Let me try to list 10 such questions.

1. Who is the scientist who coined the term "immune system"?

2. Which cell type is part of the immune system?

3. What is the cause of sepsis according to the context?

4. What is the role of the lymphatic system in the immune system?

5. What is the main component of the immune system according to the context?

6. Which disease is related to the immune system as per the context?

7. What is the role of the adaptive immune response?

8. Which image is associated with the immune system?

9. What is the function of the complement system in the immune system?

10. What is the relationship between rheumatology and the immune system?

Wait, but some of these might not be accurate based on the facts. Let me check again.

Looking back, the facts include "Immune system possui cabeçalho LC Immune system" which is a header, but maybe that's not a question. The facts also mention "T cell faz parte do sistema Immune system" so a question about T cells being part of the immune system.

Also, "Immune system usa modelo de página wiki Template:Immune system" so a question about the wiki template.

Another fact is "Immune system possui imagem representativa Primary immune response 1.png" so a question about an image.

I think I need to ensure each question is based on the facts provided. Let me re-express the facts into possible questions.

1. Which scientist is known for coining the term "immune system"?

2. What is the role of the complement system in the immune system?

3. Which cell type is part of the immune system?

4. What is the cause of sepsis according to the context?

5. What is the role of the adaptive immune system?

6. What is the function of the lymphatic system in the immune system?

7. Which disease is associated with the immune system in the context?

8. What is the name of the image associated with the immune system?

9. What is the relationship between rheumatology and the immune system?

10. What is the role of the complement system in the immune system?

Wait, but some of these might be similar. Let me check again. The user wants 10 different aspects. Let me make sure each question is unique and based on the facts. Let me check the facts again.

The facts mention:

- T cell, B cell, macrophage, neutrophil, dendritic cell, etc., are part of the immune system.

- Sepsis has immune system as a cause.

- Food allergy has immune system as a cause.

- The immune system uses certain templates in wiki.

- Images like Primary immune response 1.png.

- The immune system has a hiperônimo System.

- The immune system is categorized as a Thing.

- Rheumatology is related to the immune system.

- The adaptive immune response is based on vaccination.

- The complement system is part of the immune system.

So, I can create questions around these.

1. Who is the scientist who coined the term "immune system"?

2. Which cell type is part of the immune system?

3. What is the cause of sepsis according to the context?

4. What is the role of the complement system in the immune system?

5. What is the function of the lymphatic system in the immune system?

6. What is the role of the adaptive immune response?

7. Which disease is associated with the immune system in the context?

8. What is the name of an image associated with the immune system?

9. What is the relationship between rheumatology and the immune system?

10. What is the category of the immune system according to the context?

I think that's 10. Let me make sure each question is based on the facts provided. The answer to question 1 is Ilya Mechnikov. The answer to question 2 can be any of the listed cells, like T cell. Question 3 is sepsis. Question 4 is the complement system. Question 5 is the lymphatic system. Question 6 is vaccination. Question 7 is food allergy. Question 8 is Primary immune response 1.png. Question 9 is rheumatology is a specialty. Question 10 is the immune system is a Thing.

That should cover all 10. Now, I need to format them correctly in JSON, making sure each question is unique and based on the facts.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é o cientista que cunhou o termo 'sistema imunitário'?",
    "resposta": "Ilya Ilyich Mechnikov"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais células são parte do sistema imunitário?",
    "resposta": "T cell"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a causa da sepse segundo o contexto?",
    "resposta": "Sistema imunitário"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o papel do sistema complemento no sistema imunitário?",
    "resposta": "Reconhecer e neutralizar agentes patogénicos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a função do sistema linfático no sistema imunitário?",
    "resposta": "Apoio na resposta imunológica"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o papel da imunidade adaptativa?",
    "resposta": "Criar memória imunológica para responder a agentes patogénicos específicos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é uma doença associada ao sistema imunitário segundo o contexto?",
    "resposta": "Alergia alimentar"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome de uma imagem associada ao sistema imunitário?",
    "resposta": "Primary immune response 1.png"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a relação entre a reumatologia e o sistema imunitário?",
    "resposta": "A reumatologia tem especialização em doenças relacionadas ao sistema imunitário"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a categoria do sistema imunitário segundo o contexto?",
    "resposta": "Thing"
  }
]