<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by carefully reading through the context and facts to understand the key points.

The context mentions that the Normans were a Germanic people from northern France, originally descended from Vikings. They played significant roles in medieval Europe, like the Norman Conquest of England and involvement in Sicily and the Crusades. The facts list various details: they spoke Old Norse and Latin, used specific Wikipedia templates, were involved in several battles, and had connections with places like Jersey and Sicily. Also, some historical figures and structures are associated with them.

Now, I need to create varied questions that cover different aspects. Let's see:

1. Origin: Where did the Normans originate? The context says they were in northern France, descendants of Vikings. So the answer would be France, with Viking origins.

2. Language: What languages did they speak? The facts mention Old Norse and Latin. That's a good point.

3. Battles: Which battles were they involved in? The facts list Siege of Mahdia, Battle of Montepeloso, etc. Maybe pick a few.

4. Cultural influence: They colonized Normandy, conquered England, etc. So a question on their major historical events.

5. Religious affiliations: They followed Norse paganism and Christianity. The context says they followed Christianity, but the facts mention Norse paganism. Need to check which is accurate.

6. Architectural style: The facts mention churches and castles following Norman style. For example, St Mary's Church, Mortehoe.

7. Ethnic groups: The facts mention Hauteville family, Lyons family, etc., having Norman ethnicity.

8. Related people: Richard of Salerno, Alexander of Paris, etc., had Norman nationality.

9. Models used in Wikipedia: They use various templates like Template:House of Normandy, Template:Refend, etc.

10. Other historical figures: Maid Marian is associated with Normans.

Wait, the example responses have some answers that are incomplete, like "éculo" or "século 10 e" but the user wants correct answers. So I need to make sure each answer is accurate based on the context and facts provided.

Let me check the facts again for accuracy. For example, the Siege of Mahdia (1159–1160) had Normans as combatants, Battle of Montepeloso, Battle of Civitate, etc.

Also, the Normans are related to Norse people, and their language was Old Norman and Latin.

I need to avoid repeating similar questions. Each question should target a different aspect. Let me list possible questions:

1. What is the origin of the Normans? Answer: Northern France, with Viking descent.

2. What languages did the Normans speak? Answer: Old Norse and Latin.

3. Which major battles were the Normans involved in? Examples: Siege of Mahdia, Battle of Montepeloso.

4. What is the significance of the Norman Conquest in England? Answer: Conquered England, led by William the Conqueror.

Wait, the context mentions the Norman Conquest of England, but the facts don't mention William. However, the example had a question about the leader in Hastings, which was William. But since the user wants answers based strictly on the provided context and facts, I can't assume that. The context doesn't mention William, so maybe avoid that.

Alternatively, the context says they played a role in the Norman Conquest of England, so a question on that event's significance.

Another angle: The Normans are associated with which ethnic group? Answer: Norse people.

Also, the facts mention that the Normans are related to Jersey people, so a question on that.

Another point: The Normans used specific Wikipedia templates, like Template:House of Normandy. Maybe a question on that.

Also, the Normans followed Norse paganism and Christianity, so a question on their religious beliefs.

I need to make sure each answer is directly from the context or facts. For example, the answer about the language is from the facts that they spoke Old Norse and Latin.

Putting it all together, here's a list of questions and answers:

1. De onde os normandos originaram-se? Resposta: norte da França, com descendência de viquingues.

2. Quais idiomas os normandos falavam? Resposta: Nórdico antigo e Latim.

3. Quais foram algumas das batalhas em que os normandos participaram? Resposta: Cerâmia, Civitate, Montepeloso.

4. Qual é a religião associada aos normandos? Resposta: Paganismo nórdico e Cristianismo.

5. Quem é um exemplo de pessoa com etnia normanda mencionada nos fatos? Resposta: Família Hauteville.

6. Que castelo foi construído pelos normandos, conforme mencionado nos fatos? Resposta: Waytemore Castle.

7. Qual é a relação entre os normandos e a ilha de Jersey? Resposta: Os normandos estão relacionados à população de Jersey.

8. Quais modelos de página wiki são usados na descrição dos normandos? Resposta: Template:House of Normandy e Template:Refend.

9. Qual é a importância histórica dos normandos na Europa medieval? Resposta: Participaram da Conquista Normanda da Inglaterra e de Cruzadas.

10. Que estilo arquitetônico está associado aos normandos? Resposta: Estilo normando em igrejas como St Mary's Church, Mortehoe.

I need to check if all these answers are in the context or facts. The first two are from the context and facts. The third question's answer is from the list of battles in the facts. The fourth is from the religious info. The fifth is from the Hauteville family in the facts. The sixth is from the construction of Waytemore Castle. The seventh is from the relation to Jersey people. The eighth is from the templates used. The ninth is general but based on context. The tenth is from the architectural style in the facts.

This should cover 10 different aspects without repetition.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "De onde os normandos originaram-se?",
    "resposta": "do norte da França, com descendência de viquingues."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais idiomas os normandos falavam?",
    "resposta": "Nórdico antigo e Latim."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram algumas das batalhas em que os normandos participaram?",
    "resposta": "Batalha de Civitate, Cerâmia e Montepeloso."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a religião associada aos normandos?",
    "resposta": "Paganismo nórdico e Cristianismo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é um exemplo de pessoa com etnia normanda mencionada nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Família Hauteville."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Que castelo foi construído pelos normandos, conforme mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Waytemore Castle."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a relação entre os normandos e a ilha de Jersey?",
    "resposta": "Os normandos estão relacionados à população de Jersey."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais modelos de página wiki são usados na descrição dos normandos?",
    "resposta": "Template:House of Normandy e Template:Refend."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a importância histórica dos normandos na Europa medieval?",
    "resposta": "Participaram da Conquista Normanda da Inglaterra e de Cruzadas."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Que estilo arquitetônico está associado aos normandos?",
    "resposta": "Estilo normando em igrejas como St Mary's Church, Mortehoe."
  }
]