<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about economic inequality. Let me start by understanding the context and the facts given.

The context talks about economic inequality, including its measures like Gini coefficient, Human Development Index adjusted for inequality, and concepts like equity, equality of results, and equality of opportunity. It also mentions that globalization reduced global inequality but increased inequality within countries. There are various topics and facts listed, such as the use of templates in Wikipedia, images related to homelessness, categories like economic globalization, and notable people involved in the study of economic inequality.

Now, I need to create questions that are varied and cover different aspects of the content. The examples given in the prompt include questions about the Gini coefficient, the Human Development Index, the role of globalization, and specific facts about wealth distribution. I should ensure that each question is unique and based on the provided facts, not adding any external information.

Looking at the facts, there are mentions of specific images, categories, authors, and studies related to economic inequality. For example, there's a mention of "Tents of the homeless on the sidewalk in Skid Row, Los Angeles" as a legend, which could relate to income inequality. Also, there's a reference to the Gini index and the 2018 Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index. 

I need to make sure that each question is directly related to the content. For instance, questions about the Gini coefficient, the Human Development Index, the causes of movements like Occupy Wall Street, the role of certain scholars like Branko Milanović, and the impact of globalization. Also, some facts mention specific images or data points, like the 2018 Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index SVG image, which could be a question about that.

I should avoid repeating similar questions. For example, if one question is about the Gini coefficient, another could be about the Human Development Index. Also, considering the different aspects like causes (e.g., Occupy movements), measures, and concepts (like equity vs. equality).

Let me list out possible questions and answers based on the facts:

1. What is the most commonly used measure for economic inequality?
   - Answer: Coefficient of Gini

2. Which index adjusts the Human Development Index for inequality?
   - Answer: Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index

3. What is a key concept in economic equality?
   - Answer: Equity

4. Which movement is associated with economic inequality as a cause?
   - Answer: Occupy Wall Street

5. Which scholar is associated with economic inequality?
   - Answer: Branko Milanović

6. What does globalization do to global and national inequality?
   - Answer: Reduces global inequality, increases national inequality

7. What is the name of the image representing homelessness in Los Angeles?
   - Answer: Tents of the homeless on the sidewalk in Skid Row, Los Angeles

8. What is the name of the image showing global wealth distribution?
   - Answer: Global Wealth Distribution 2020 (Property).svg

9. Which organization is focused on economic inequality?
   - Answer: Nathan Cummings Foundation

10. What is the main topic of the book "Capital and Ideology"?
    - Answer: Economic inequality

Wait, but the user provided examples that included some specific data points, like the Gini coefficient and the Human Development Index. Also, the fact that the Gini coefficient is the most used measure. Also, the mention of Occupy movements like Occupy Wall Street, which are associated with economic inequality.

I need to check if all these are covered in the given facts. Let me verify:

- Coefficient of Gini is mentioned as the most used measure. Correct.
- Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index is mentioned as a composite index. Correct.
- Equity is a concept in economic equality. Correct.
- Occupy Wall Street is a movement with economic inequality as a cause. Correct.
- Branko Milanović is a scholar in economic inequality. Correct.
- Globalization reduces global inequality but increases national inequality. Correct.
- The image of tents in Skid Row is a legend. Correct.
- The image of global wealth distribution is mentioned. Correct.
- Nathan Cummings Foundation focuses on economic inequality. Correct.
- The book "Capital and Ideology" has economic inequality as a subject. Correct.

That's 10 questions. However, the example given by the user includes questions about the Gini coefficient, Human Development Index, and specific data points. I need to ensure that each question is based on the facts provided. Also, the answer must be directly inferable from the content. 

Another point is the category "Category:Economic globalization" and "Category:Occupy Wall Street" which could be part of the questions. Also, the fact that the Gini index is mentioned with the image "GINI index World Bank up to 2018.png". But the user's example includes a question about the Gini coefficient, which is covered here.

I think the above 10 questions are valid. Let me structure them as per the JSON format required, making sure each question is unique and based on the facts. Also, check if any of the facts are not used. For example, the mention of "The Rich and the Rest of Us" as a book about economic inequality. But the user's example includes that, but maybe that's not necessary here.

Alternatively, maybe the question about the book "Capital and Ideology" is better. Also, the image "20220801 Economic stratification - cross-class friendships - bar chart.svg" could be a question about the image, but the user's example didn't include that. However, the user's instruction says to generate questions based on the facts, so if an image is mentioned, it can be a question.

But the user's example has questions about specific images, so maybe that's acceptable. However, the user's example may have included some images, but in the given facts, there are multiple image references. But the user's example uses specific data points. However, the user's instruction says to generate questions based on the provided facts, so any image mentioned can be a question.

But perhaps the user's example has questions that are more about the concepts rather than the images. Let me check the facts again.

The facts mention:

- "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa Tenting in Los Angeles Skid Row.jpg"
- "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa 2018 Inequality-Adjusted Human Development INdex.svg"
- "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa Global Wealth Distribution 2020 (Property).svg"
- "Economic inequality possui imagem representativa Kuznets curve.png"

So, the images are related to homelessness in Skid Row, the Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index, global wealth distribution, and Kuznets curve. So, possible questions about these images.

But the user's example didn't include these. However, the user's example includes questions about the Gini coefficient, the Human Development Index, and the role of globalization. So, the user's example is focused on the concepts and data points.

Therefore, to generate 10 questions, I can focus on the concepts, measures, causes, and related organizations and studies.

So, the 10 questions I have listed above are valid. Let me check if each is covered in the facts:

1. Gini coefficient is the most used measure. Yes.
2. Inequality-Adjusted Human Development Index. Yes.
3. Equity as a concept. Yes.
4. Occupy Wall Street as a movement. Yes.
5. Branko Milanović. Yes.
6. Globalization's effect. Yes.
7. Image of Skid Row. Yes.
8. Global wealth distribution image. Yes.
9. Nathan Cummings Foundation. Yes.
10. Capital and Ideology. Yes.

That's 10. However, the user's example has a question about the Gini coefficient, which is covered here. But the user's example also has questions about the Oxfam data, which is not in the given facts. So, I need to make sure that the questions are based on the facts provided, not on external knowledge.

Therefore, the questions I have are correct. Now, I need to format them into JSON as per the user's instructions.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o principal índice utilizado para medir a desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Coeficiente de Gini"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do índice que ajusta o Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano para a desigualdade?",
    "resposta": "Índice de Desenvolvimento Humano Ajustado para Desigualdade"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é um conceito central na igualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Equidade"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual movimento social está associado à desigualdade econômica como causa?",
    "resposta": "Occupy Wall Street"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual pesquisador está associado ao estudo da desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Branko Milanović"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a globalização afeta a desigualdade global e nacional?",
    "resposta": "Reduz a desigualdade global, mas aumenta a desigualdade nacional"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome da imagem que representa a pobreza em Los Angeles?",
    "resposta": "Tentos de pessoas sem abrigo na Avenida Skid Row, Los Angeles"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome da imagem que representa a distribuição global de riqueza?",
    "resposta": "Distribuição Global de Riqueza 2020 (Bens).svg"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual organização está focada na desigualdade econômica?",
    "resposta": "Fundo Nathan Cummings"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o tema principal do livro 'Capital e Ideologia'?",
    "resposta": "Desigualdade econômica"
  }
]