<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context about Ctenophora. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly.

The context mentions that Ctenophora are a phylum of marine animals, cosmopolitan, mostly planktonic, some benthic, bioluminescent. They have cilia (pentes) for swimming. They are the largest non-colonial animals moving with cilia, ranging from 1mm to 1.5m. They resemble jellyfish in morphology but are a separate evolutionary convergence. They have been in the fossil record since the Cambrian.

The facts provided include some RDF triples, which might be useful for specific terms. For example, the name "Comb jellies" is mentioned, and the type species is Mnemiopsis leidyi. Also, they are part of the Animalia kingdom, and their subdivisions are classes like Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora.

Now, I need to create 10 varied questions. Let me list possible aspects:

1. What is the common name for Ctenophora? (Answer: Comb jellies)
2. What is the scientific name? (Ctenophora)
3. What is the primary feature for movement? (Pentes - cilia)
4. What is the size range? (1mm to 1.5m)
5. Are they related to Cnidaria? (No, convergent evolution)
6. What is their classification? (Phylum Animalia)
7. What is the type species? (Mnemiopsis leidyi)
8. Where are they found? (Marine waters)
9. What is their taxonomic rank? (Phylum)
10. What is their fossil record presence? (Since Cambrian)

Wait, the examples provided in the user's message had some duplicates, like two questions about size. I need to avoid that. Let me ensure each question is unique and covers different aspects.

Check the example answers. The user's examples included questions about common names, movement, size, etc. Let me make sure not to repeat those but cover other aspects like classification, type species, taxonomic rank, and evolutionary relationships.

Also, the facts mention that they are in the fossil record since the Cambrian, so that's a good point. The type species is Mnemiopsis leidyi. The subdivisions are classes like Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora. Maybe a question about their subdivisions.

Also, the context says they are bioluminescent, so a question about that. And their relation to Cnidaria (convergent evolution).

Let me structure the 10 questions:

1. What is the common name for Ctenophora?
2. What is the scientific classification of Ctenophora?
3. What is the primary feature used for movement?
4. What is the size range of adult Ctenophora?
5. Are Ctenophora closely related to Cnidaria?
6. What is the type species of Ctenophora?
7. What is the taxonomic rank of Ctenophora?
8. What is the significance of their presence in the fossil record?
9. What are the subdivisions of Ctenophora?
10. What is a distinguishing characteristic of Ctenophora in terms of biology?

Now, check if these are all unique and cover different aspects. Let me verify the answers from the context:

1. Common name: Comb jellies (from the facts)
2. Scientific classification: Phylum Animalia (from the facts)
3. Primary feature: pentes (cilia)
4. Size range: 1mm to 1.5m
5. Relation to Cnidaria: convergent evolution
6. Type species: Mnemiopsis leidyi
7. Taxonomic rank: Phylum
8. Fossil record: since Cambrian
9. Subdivisions: classes (Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora)
10. Distinguishing characteristic: bioluminescence or cilia? Wait, the context says they are bioluminescent, so maybe that's another point. Alternatively, the presence of cilia is the main feature. But the user's examples had the cilia as the main feature. Maybe the bioluminescence is another point. However, the user's examples included the cilia as the main feature. Let me adjust question 10 to be about bioluminescence.

So, the 10th question could be: Are Ctenophora bioluminescent?

But the user's examples already included a question about bioluminescence. Wait, looking back at the examples, the user's examples don't include that. The examples given have questions about size, movement, common names, etc. But the context mentions they are bioluminescent. So including that as a question is okay.

Wait, in the context, it says "bioluminescent, que apresentam como característica distintiva a presença de pentes formados por grupos de cílios que utilizam para nadar." So the distinctive feature is the cilia (pentes), but they are also bioluminescent. So maybe the 10th question can be about bioluminescence.

Alternatively, the 10th question could be about their classification as a phylum, but that's covered in question 2. Let me check again.

Wait, the user's examples have:

- "O que é um ctenophora?" -> filo de animais...
- "O que o ctenophora usa para nadar?" -> pentes
- "O que ctenophora usa para digestão e respiração?" -> fluxo de água
- "Qual o tamanho da ctenophora?" -> 1,5 m
- "Qual é a característica mais distinta do ctenophora?" -> pentes
- "O que são comumente conhecidos como ctenophora?" -> geléias de pente
- "O que significa ctenophora em grego?" -> κτείς kteis 'comb' e φέρω pherō 'carry'
- "Onde vive o ctenophora?" -> águas marinhas

So the user's examples have questions about common names, movement, size, distinctive feature, etc. The examples also included the size again, which the user might have considered duplicates but the instruction says to avoid repetition.

So for the current task, the user wants 10 unique questions. Let me proceed to draft the 10 pairs, ensuring each is unique and covers different aspects.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome científico do filo que inclui os ctenóforos?",
    "resposta": "Ctenophora"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que é a característica mais distintiva dos ctenóforos?",
    "resposta": "'pentes' - grupos de cílios"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o tamanho máximo de um adulto de ctenóforo?",
    "resposta": "1,5 m (4 pés 11 pol)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os nomes comuns dados aos ctenóforos?",
    "resposta": "geleias de pente"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "A que grupo taxonômico os ctenóforos pertencem?",
    "resposta": "Reino Animalia"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a espécie-tipo associada ao filo Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "Mnemiopsis leidyi"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a classificação taxonômica do filo Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "Filum"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que período geológico os ctenóforos já eram encontrados?",
    "resposta": "Cambrides"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são as classes que compõem o filo Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "Tentaculata, Nuda e Scleroctenophora"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Os ctenóforos são bioluminescentes? Qual é a característica relacionada a isso?",
    "resposta": "Sim, são bioluminescentes"
  }
]