<think>
Okay, let's start by understanding the user's request. They want 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about oxygen. The key here is to make sure each question is unique and covers different aspects of the content given.

First, I'll go through the context and facts to identify different areas. The context talks about oxygen's properties, its role in the atmosphere, its discovery, applications, and some related compounds like ozone. The facts mention categories, models, historical figures, and other related terms like companies that produce oxygen or related substances.

I need to create questions that are relevant and have a clear correct answer from the information provided. Let me start by listing possible topics:

1. Chemical properties (atomic number, symbol, electronegativity)
2. Abundance in the universe and Earth's crust
3. Molecular form (O2, diatomic)
4. Role in respiration and combustion
5. Discovery (Scheele, Priestley, Lavoisier)
6. Historical theories like phlogiston
7. Ozone layer and its functions
8. Applications in industry and medicine
9. Models and categories related to oxygen (e.g., oxidizing agents, Chalcogens)
10. Historical context of oxygen in the atmosphere (2.5 billion years ago)

Now, I'll form questions for each of these areas. Need to ensure that each question is distinct and the answer is directly from the context or facts. For example, the atomic number and symbol are in the context, so a question about that. The electronegativity is mentioned as second only to fluorine. 

For the facts, categories like Category:Oxidizing agents and Category:Chalcogens can be used. The discovery dates by Scheele and Priestley are in the context. The role in the atmosphere's accumulation 2.5 billion years ago is another point. 

I need to check that each answer is explicitly stated or can be inferred. For example, the fact that oxygen is in the Chalcogens group is in the context. The models and categories in the facts can be turned into questions about what categories oxygen is associated with. 

Also, the user mentioned using the facts like companies producing oxygen (Inox Air Products, BOC Kenya) but the example answer provided in the user's example didn't use those. Wait, in the example, they didn't include those, but the user's instruction says to use the facts provided. Hmm, need to check the instructions again. The user said to generate questions based on both context and facts. So I should include some questions from the facts as well.

Looking at the facts, there are mentions of categories like Category:Oxidizing agents, Category:Chalcogens, and others. Also, models like Template:Chembox Hazards. Companies producing oxygen are in the facts (Inox Air Products, BOC Kenya). Historical figures associated (Scheele, Priestley, Lavoisier) are in the context and facts. 

So, possible questions from facts could be: What category is oxygen associated with in terms of oxidizing agents? What company produces oxygen according to the facts? What historical figure is known for discovering oxygen (Priestley, Scheele, Lavoisier)?

I need to make sure that each of the 10 pairs is unique and covers different aspects. Let's start drafting:

1. What is the atomic number of oxygen? (From context)
2. What is the chemical symbol for oxygen? (Context)
3. In which group of the periodic table is oxygen classified? (Chalcogens, context)
4. Who discovered oxygen first? (Scheele and Priestley, context)
5. What is the primary function of the ozone layer? (Absorb UV, context)
6. What percentage of Earth's atmosphere is oxygen? (20.8%, context)
7. What is the electronegativity rank of oxygen? (Second to fluorine, context)
8. What is the main source of oxygen in Earth's atmosphere? (Photosynthesis, context)
9. What industrial application is oxygen commonly used for? (Steel production, context)
10. Which company produces oxygen as a product? (Inox Air Products, facts)

Wait, checking the facts, "Inox Air Products tem como produto Oxygen" and "BOC Kenya Limited tem como produto Oxygen". So those companies are in the facts. So a question like "Which company produces oxygen as a product?" with answer "Inox Air Products" (since the facts mention it, and the user's example includes that in the facts). But need to make sure the answer is exactly as in the facts. 

Also, the facts mention "Category:Oxidizing agents" and "Category:Chalcogens", so a question could be "Which category is oxygen associated with as an oxidizing agent?" with answer "Category:Oxidizing agents". 

Also, the user's example includes "What is the electronegativity rank of oxygen?" with answer "second, after fluorine". That's from the context. 

Another fact is "Antoine Lavoisier é conhecido por Oxygen", so a question could be "Which scientist is credited with naming oxygen?" with answer "Antoine Lavoisier". 

Need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me list out 10:

1. What is the atomic number of oxygen?
2. What is the chemical symbol for oxygen?
3. In which group of the periodic table is oxygen classified?
4. Who were the first scientists to discover oxygen?
5. What is the primary function of the ozone layer in Earth's atmosphere?
6. What percentage of Earth's atmosphere is composed of oxygen?
7. How does oxygen's electronegativity rank among all elements?
8. What process is primarily responsible for maintaining oxygen levels in Earth's atmosphere?
9. Which industrial application commonly uses oxygen in steel production?
10. Which company produces oxygen as a product according to the facts?

Now, check if all answers are in the context or facts. 

1. Atomic number is 8 (context)
2. Symbol is O (context)
3. Chalcogens group (context)
4. Scheele and Priestley (context)
5. Absorb UV, protect biosphere (context)
6. 20.8% (context)
7. Second after fluorine (context)
8. Photosynthesis (context)
9. Steel production (context)
10. Inox Air Products (facts)

That seems to cover all the required aspects. Each question is unique and based on the provided information. Now, I'll format them into the required JSON structure with "pergunta" and "resposta" keys.
</think>

```json
[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o número atômico do oxigênio?",
    "resposta": "8"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o símbolo químico do oxigênio?",
    "resposta": "O"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "A que grupo da tabela periódica o oxigênio pertence?",
    "resposta": "Calcógenos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem foram os primeiros cientistas a descobrir o oxigênio?",
    "resposta": "Michael Sendivogius, mais tarde confirmado por Carl Wilhelm Scheele e Joseph Priestley"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a principal função da camada de ozônio na atmosfera terrestre?",
    "resposta": "Absorver radiação ultravioleta, protegendo a biosfera"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual porcentagem do ar atmosférico é composta por oxigênio?",
    "resposta": "20,8%"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como se classifica a eletronegatividade do oxigênio em relação aos outros elementos?",
    "resposta": "Segunda posição, atrás apenas do flúor"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual processo é responsável por manter os níveis de oxigênio na atmosfera terrestre?",
    "resposta": "Fotossíntese"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual aplicação industrial comum utiliza oxigênio na produção de aço?",
    "resposta": "Processo de produção de aço"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual empresa produz oxigênio como produto, conforme mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Inox Air Products"
  }
]
```