<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about the 1973 oil crisis. Let me start by understanding the context thoroughly.

The main context is about the 1973 oil crisis, initiated by OPEC's embargo against countries supporting Israel in the Yom Kippur War. The embargo started in October 1973 and lasted until March 1974. Key points include the targeted countries, the price increase from $3 to $12 per barrel globally, with higher prices in the US. It's referred to as the "first oil shock," followed by the 1979 crisis.

Now, looking at the facts provided, there's a lot of categorization and metadata about the Wikipedia page, like categories such as "1973 in economics," "embargoes," "energy crises," etc. Also, the page uses various templates and has associated images and references. However, the user's instruction is to base the questions on the context and facts given, so I should focus on both the narrative context and the factual metadata.

First, I should list possible questions. Let's start with the main event: who initiated the embargo. The answer is OPAEP (Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo). Next, the targeted countries. The initial ones were Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, and US, later expanding to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Then, the duration (October 1973 to March 1974). The price increase from $3 to $12. The term "first oil shock." The subsequent "second oil shock" in 1979. Also, the effects, like economic and political impacts, inflation, energy crises, etc.

Additionally, some facts from the metadata could be used. For example, categories like "1973 in international relations," "embargoes," "economic disasters," etc. The page uses templates like "Template:Petroleum industry," "Template:Cite book," etc. However, the user might want questions based on the context rather than the metadata, unless the metadata is directly relevant.

Wait, the user's instruction says to use both the context and the facts provided. The facts include the categories and types, but maybe the user wants questions based on the context's content rather than the metadata. However, some of the facts might be part of the context. For example, the categories like "Category:Energy crises" and "Category:1973 in economics" are mentioned. But the main context is the narrative about the crisis.

So, I need to ensure that the questions are either directly from the context (narrative) or the facts (like categories, types, etc.). However, the user's example might have included some from the facts. Let me check the example given in the problem statement. Wait, no example was provided, but the user says to generate 10 pairs based on the context and facts.

So, perhaps the user wants questions that can be answered using either the narrative context or the factual metadata. For example, the categories are part of the facts. So, a question could be "Em que categoria a crise do petróleo de 1973 está classificada em termos econômicos?" with the answer "Category:1973 in economics."

But the user might prefer questions based on the main narrative. Let me check the rules again. The rules state that the questions must be "claramente relacionadas ao conteúdo apresentado abaixo," which includes both the context and the facts. So, the facts include the categories, types, and other metadata.

Therefore, I can create questions from both the narrative context and the metadata facts. For example, a question about the categories or the types (like "Qual é o tipo da crise do petróleo de 1973?" answer "WikicatEmbargoes") could be valid if the metadata is part of the facts provided.

However, I need to make sure that the questions are varied and cover different aspects. Let's start by brainstorming possible questions.

1. Quem iniciou o embargo petrolífero em 1973? R: OPAEP.
2. Quais foram os países inicialmente alvo do embargo? R: Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos.
3. Em que mês e ano terminou o embargo? R: Março de 1974.
4. Qual foi o aumento no preço do petróleo durante a crise? R: De US$3 para US$12 por barril.
5. Qual foi o termo usado para a crise de 1973? R: Primeiro choque do petróleo.
6. Qual evento internacional motivou o embargo? R: Guerra do Yom Kippur.
7. Quais foram as consequências da crise? R: Efeitos na economia e política global, inflação, etc.
8. Qual categoria a crise do petróleo de 1973 está classificada? R: Category:Energy crises.
9. Qual é o tipo da crise do petróleo de 1973? R: Embargo106660520.
10. Quais são os países que tiveram o embargo expandido posteriormente? R: Portugal, Rodésia e África do Sul.

Wait, the user wants exactly 10 pairs, and each must be unique and cover different aspects. Let me check if these questions are valid and not overlapping.

Another possible question: Em que ano ocorreu a crise do petróleo de 1973? R: 1973. But that's too basic, maybe better to focus on other aspects.

Also, the crise was called the "first oil shock," so a question about that term. Another question about the subsequent "second oil shock" in 1979.

Additionally, the page uses templates like "Template:Petroleum industry," so a question could be: Qual é o modelo de página wiki usado para descrever a crise do petróleo de 1973? R: Template:Petroleum industry.

Another one: Qual a categoria relacionada à economia que a crise do petróleo de 1973 pertence? R: Category:1973 in economics.

I need to ensure that each question is distinct and not overlapping. Let's compile a list of 10, making sure they are varied.

1. Quem iniciou o embargo petrolífero em 1973? R: OPAEP.
2. Quais foram os países inicialmente alvo do embargo de 1973? R: Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos.
3. Em que mês e ano terminou o embargo petrolífero de 1973? R: Março de 1974.
4. Qual foi o aumento no preço do petróleo durante a crise de 1973? R: De US$3 para US$12 por barril.
5. Qual termo é usado para descrever a crise petrolífera de 1973? R: Primeiro choque do petróleo.
6. Qual evento internacional motivou a proclamação do embargo? R: Guerra do Yom Kippur.
7. Qual categoria a crise do petróleo de 1973 está classificada em relação a crises energéticas? R: Category:Energy crises.
8. Qual tipo de evento é a crise do petróleo de 1973 segundo os dados fornecidos? R: Embargo106660520.
9. Quais países tiveram o embargo expandido após a crise inicial? R: Portugal, Rodésia e África do Sul.
10. Qual é o modelo de página wiki usado para a crise do petróleo de 1973? R: Template:Petroleum industry.

Now, check for uniqueness and coverage. Each question addresses a different aspect: who, countries, duration, price change, term, cause, category, type, expanded countries, and template. That's 10, all different. The answers are all from the context and facts provided. The user might also want to include the subsequent 1979 crisis as a question, but since the context only mentions it briefly, maybe not. Alternatively, a question about the next crisis.

Alternatively, a question about the economic impact, like "Quais foram as consequências da crise do petróleo de 1973?" but the answer would be more general. The context mentions "efeitos na economia e política global, inflação, etc." So maybe that's a valid question.

But I already have 10. Let me check again. The user might want to include more from the facts. For example, the category "1973 in economics" is different from "Energy crises." So maybe question 7 and another about the other categories.

But I need to stick to 10. The above list seems okay. Let me verify each answer against the context and facts.

1. OPAEP is correct. The context says "OPEC's embargo" but in Portuguese it's "Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo" (OPAEP). So that's correct.

2. The initial countries are correct as per the context.

3. March 1974 as the end date is correct.

4. The price increase from $3 to $12, with higher in the US.

5. "Primeiro choque do petróleo" is the term used.

6. The Yom Kippur War is the correct event.

7. Category:Energy crises is correct, as per the facts.

8. The type "Embargo106660520" is from the facts.

9. The expanded countries are Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa.

10. The template "Template:Petroleum industry" is from the facts.

Yes, these all seem valid. I think this meets the user's requirements. Now, format them into the required JSON structure with "pergunta" and "resposta" in Portuguese.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem iniciou o embargo petrolífero em 1973?",
    "resposta": "Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram os países inicialmente alvo do embargo de 1973?",
    "resposta": "Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que mês e ano terminou o embargo petrolífero de 1973?",
    "resposta": "Março de 1974"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o aumento no preço do petróleo durante a crise de 1973?",
    "resposta": "De US$3 para US$12 por barril"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual termo é usado para descrever a crise petrolífera de 1973?",
    "resposta": "Primeiro choque do petróleo"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual evento internacional motivou a proclamação do embargo?",
    "resposta": "Guerra do Yom Kippur"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual categoria a crise do petróleo de 1973 está classificada em relação a crises energéticas?",
    "resposta": "Category:Energy crises"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual tipo de evento é a crise do petróleo de 1973 segundo os dados fornecidos?",
    "resposta": "Embargo106660520"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países tiveram o embargo expandido após a crise inicial?",
    "resposta": "Portugal, Rodésia e África do Sul"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o modelo de página wiki usado para a crise do petróleo de 1973?",
    "resposta": "Template:Petroleum industry"
  }
]