<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the given context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context and facts thoroughly.

The context mentions that EU laws are a system of rules operating in member states, originating from the European Coal and Steel Community post-WWII. The EU's goals include promoting peace, values, and well-being. It has political, social, and economic institutions that transcend national states for cooperation. The Court of Justice states the EU represents a "new order of international law."

The facts include some RDF data about resources related to EU law, like academic disciplines, scholars, and templates. For example, Henry G. Schermers and John Bell are associated with EU law. There are also mentions of the Common Market Law Review and Wikipedia page details.

Now, I need to create questions that are varied, cover different aspects, and have answers directly from the context or inferable. Let me brainstorm possible questions.

1. What is the primary objective of the EU according to the context? The answer would be promoting peace, values, and well-being.

2. What are the main institutions of the EU? The context mentions political, social, and economic institutions.

3. What is the source of EU laws? The context says they are a system of rules from the EU.

4. What is the role of the Court of Justice? It states the EU is a new order of international law.

5. What are the main sources of primary EU law? The context refers to treaties establishing the EU.

6. How do EU laws affect member states' laws? The context mentions direct or indirect effect.

7. What is the academic discipline related to EU law? The facts mention it's an academic discipline.

8. Who are some scholars in EU law? Henry G. Schermers and John Bell are mentioned.

9. What are the secondary sources of EU law? The context might imply regulations and guidelines, though not explicitly stated. Wait, the example questions mention regulations and directives, but the given context doesn't. Need to check.

Wait, the context says "leis da União Europeia são um sistema de regras que opera nos estados membros" and "Tratados que instituem a União Europeia" as primary sources. The examples include secondary sources like regulations and guidelines, but the given context doesn't mention them. So I shouldn't include that unless inferred. Maybe the context doesn't specify secondary sources, so I should avoid that.

So, adjust questions to what's in the context. For example, the context says "o Tribunal de Justiça, a UE representa 'uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional'." So a question about the Court of Justice's statement.

Also, the facts mention that the Law of the European Union is an academic discipline, so a question about that.

Another point: the EU has institutions that transcend national states for cooperation. So a question about the purpose of these institutions.

Check the examples given to ensure not repeating similar questions. For instance, avoid asking the same question about primary sources multiple times.

Let me list possible questions:

1. What is the main goal of the EU according to the context?
2. What does the Court of Justice say about the EU's legal order?
3. What are the institutions of the EU designed to do?
4. What is the primary source of EU laws?
5. What is the academic discipline associated with EU law?
6. Who are some scholars in EU law?
7. How do EU laws interact with national laws?
8. What is the origin of EU laws?
9. What is the role of treaties in EU law?
10. What is the significance of the Court of Justice's statement?

Now, check each against the context and facts to ensure answers are present.

For example, question 1: "promover a paz, seus valores e o bem-estar de seus povos" – yes.

Question 2: "nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional" – yes.

Question 3: "transcendem os Estados-nação para fins de cooperação e desenvolvimento humano" – answer would be to enable cooperation and human development.

Question 4: "Tratados que instituem a União Europeia" – from the context.

Question 5: "Law of the European Union" as academic discipline from the facts.

Question 6: Henry G. Schermers and John Bell from the facts.

Question 7: "efeito direto ou indireto" – from the examples, but the context doesn't mention it. Wait, the context says "o direito da União Europeia tem sobre as leis dos estados membros" but the original context provided doesn't explicitly state "efeito direto ou indireto." Wait, the original context says "as leis da União Europeia são um sistema de regras que opera nos estados membros" but doesn't specify direct or indirect effect. However, in the examples, there's a question about that. But according to the user's instructions, the answer must be explicit or inferable. Since the context doesn't mention effect, maybe I shouldn't include that. So adjust question 7 to something else.

Let me revise the questions to ensure they are based on the given context and facts.

Maybe:

7. What is the origin of the EU's legal system?
Answer: From the European Coal and Steel Community after WWII.

8. What is the role of the Court of Justice in the EU?
Answer: To define the EU as a new order of international law.

9. What are the main sources of EU laws according to the context?
Answer: Treaties establishing the EU.

10. What is the purpose of the EU's institutions?
Answer: To enable cooperation and human development beyond national states.

But need to check if these are covered.

Yes, the origin is mentioned as the European Coal and Steel Community post-WWII.

The Court of Justice's role is to state the EU as a new legal order.

The main sources are treaties.

Institutions' purpose is cooperation and development.

Now, compiling 10 pairs without repetition.

Also, check for variety: objectives, institutions, sources, court's role, origin, scholars, etc.

Final list:

1. What is the main objective of the EU according to the context?
   Answer: Promover a paz, seus valores e o bem-estar de seus povos.

2. What does the Court of Justice state about the EU's legal order?
   Answer: Representa "uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional".

3. What is the origin of the EU's legal system?
   Answer: Fundação da Comunidade Europeia do Carvão e do Aço após a Segunda Guerra Mundial.

4. What are the main institutions of the EU?
   Answer: Instituições políticas, sociais e econômicas.

5. What is the primary source of EU laws?
   Answer: Tratados que instituem a União Europeia.

6. What is the academic discipline related to EU law?
   Answer: Law of the European Union.

7. Who are some scholars associated with EU law?
   Answer: Henry G. Schermers e John Bell.

8. What is the purpose of the EU's institutions?
   Answer: Transcender os Estados-nação para fins de cooperação e desenvolvimento humano.

9. What is the role of the Court of Justice in the EU?
   Answer: Definir a UE como uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional.

10. What is the significance of the EU's legal system?
   Answer: Operar nos estados membros para promover cooperação e desenvolvimento humano.

Wait, but need to ensure answers are exactly from the context. For example, the Court of Justice's statement is in the context: "segundo o seu Tribunal de Justiça, a UE representa 'uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional'." So question 2's answer should be "a UE representa 'uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional'."

Also, check for exact wording. For example, question 3's answer: "fundação da Comunidade Europeia do Carvão e do Aço após a Segunda Guerra Mundial" is in the context.

Question 5: "Tratados que instituem a União Europeia" is mentioned in the examples, but the context says "os tratados que instituem a União Europeia" – yes.

Question 7: The facts mention Henry G. Schermers and John Bell as associated with EU law.

Question 8: "transcender os Estados-nação para fins de cooperação e desenvolvimento humano" is in the context.

I think these are all valid. Now, structure them into JSON without any extra text.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o principal objetivo da União Europeia segundo o contexto?",
    "resposta": "Promover a paz, seus valores e o bem-estar de seus povos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que o Tribunal de Justiça afirma sobre a ordem jurídica da UE?",
    "resposta": "A UE representa 'uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional'."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "De onde surgiu o sistema de leis da União Europeia?",
    "resposta": "Da fundação da Comunidade Europeia do Carvão e do Aço após a Segunda Guerra Mundial."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são as principais instituições da UE?",
    "resposta": "Instituições políticas, sociais e econômicas."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a fonte principal das leis da União Europeia?",
    "resposta": "Tratados que instituem a União Europeia."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a disciplina acadêmica associada ao direito da UE?",
    "resposta": "Law of the European Union."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem são alguns especialistas no direito da UE?",
    "resposta": "Henry G. Schermers e John Bell."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o propósito das instituições da UE?",
    "resposta": "Transcender os Estados-nação para fins de cooperação e desenvolvimento humano."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o papel do Tribunal de Justiça na UE?",
    "resposta": "Definir a UE como uma nova ordem jurídica de direito internacional."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a importância do sistema de leis da UE?",
    "resposta": "Operar nos estados membros para promover cooperação e desenvolvimento humano."
  }
]