<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 objective questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about the Black Death. Let me start by carefully reading through the context and facts given.

The context mentions that the Black Death was the most devastating pandemic, killing 75-200 million people in Eurasia, peaking in Europe between 1347-1351. The cause is Yersinia pestis, leading to bubonic, pneumonic, and septicemic plague. It started in Central or Eastern Asia, spread via the Silk Road to Crimea, then through Genoese merchant ships to the Mediterranean and Europe. It killed 30-60% of Europe's population, reducing the world population from 475 million to 350-375 million in the 14th century. Europe took 200 years to recover, with some areas like Florence recovering in the 19th century. It returned as outbreaks until the early 20th century.

The facts include various attributes like source, width, page templates, authors, dates, images, etc. But the main content is the historical facts about the Black Death. The examples given in the prompt include questions about origin, spread, percentage of population killed, recovery time, duration, etc.

Now, I need to create 10 unique questions that cover different aspects. Let me list possible topics:

1. Origin of the Black Death
2. How it spread to the Mediterranean and Europe
3. Percentage of Europe's population killed
4. Time taken for Europe to recover
5. When the plague started (date)
6. The main disease caused by the Black Death
7. The primary vector for transmission
8. The role of the Silk Road
9. The source of the information (Geoffrey the Baker)
10. The main impact on the world population

Wait, the examples already have some of these. Let me check the examples again. The examples include origin, spread via ships, percentage killed, recovery time, duration, etc. So I need to make sure my questions are different but cover various aspects.

Looking at the facts, there's a mention of the Black Death being a pandemic, the cause being Yersinia pestis, the primary vector being the oriental rat flea, the spread via merchant ships, the origin in Asia, the impact on Europe's population, the recovery time, the dates (1346), the images used, etc.

So, possible questions:

- What is the primary vector for the transmission of the Black Death?
- Which region is credited with the origin of the Black Death?
- What was the main impact of the Black Death on Europe's population?
- What is the main disease associated with the Black Death?
- How did the Black Death spread to Europe?
- What was the estimated number of deaths caused by the Black Death?
- What is the name of the bacterium responsible for the Black Death?
- When did the Black Death start according to the facts?
- What was the main effect of the Black Death on the world population?
- What was the main cause of the Black Death?

Wait, but some of these might be covered in the examples. Let me check the examples again. The first example is origin, the second is spread via ships, third is percentage killed, fourth is recovery time, fifth is duration, sixth is enzootic, seventh is the age of the graves, eighth is where the plagues originated, ninth is when the Chinese famine started, tenth is how many people were killed in China.

But the user wants questions based on the given facts, not the examples. So I should focus on the facts provided, which include the origin in Asia, spread via merchant ships, the percentage of Europe's population, the recovery time, the dates (1346), the disease (bubonic plague), the vector (oriental rat flea), the bacterium (Yersinia pestis), the impact on world population, etc.

Let me make sure each question is unique and covers different aspects. Also, the answers must be directly from the context or facts provided. Let's go step by step.

1. Origin: "De onde se originou a Peste Negra?" Answer: "na Ásia Central ou na Ásia Oriental."

2. Spread: "Como a Peste Negra chegou ao Mediterrâneo e à Europa?" Answer: "por navios mercantes genoveses."

3. Percentage of Europe's population: "Quanto da população europeia matou a Peste Negra?" Answer: "30% a 60% da população da Europa."

4. Recovery time: "Quando a população da Europa recuperou o nível anterior após a Peste Negra?" Answer: "cerca de 200 anos."

5. Start date: "Em que ano a Peste Negra começou?" Answer: "1346."

6. Main disease: "Qual é a principal doença associada à Peste Negra?" Answer: "a peste bubônica."

7. Vector: "Qual é o principal vetor de transmissão da Peste Negra?" Answer: "a pulga oriental do ratinho."

8. World population impact: "Qual foi o impacto da Peste Negra na população mundial?" Answer: "reduziu a população mundial de 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões no século XIV."

9. Bacterium: "Qual é a bactéria responsável pela Peste Negra?" Answer: "Yersinia pestis."

10. Spread via Silk Road: "Por meio de que rota a Peste Negra se espalhou para a Ásia?" Answer: "por meio da Rota da Seda."

Wait, the context says it started in Asia, spread via the Silk Road to Crimea, then through merchant ships. So maybe the question about the Silk Road is valid. But the user's examples have that, but I need to make sure the answer is from the facts. The facts mention "via a Rota da Seda" as the spread route to Crimea. So the answer would be "via a Rota da Seda."

Alternatively, maybe "via a Rota da Seda" is correct. Let me check the facts again. The context says "se originou na Ásia Central ou na Ásia Oriental, e se espalhou pela Rota da Seda para a Crimeia, depois por meio de navios mercantes genoveses."

So yes, the answer would be "via a Rota da Seda."

That should cover the 10 questions. Let me check if there's any overlap or if any answers are missing. Also, need to make sure the answers are in the correct form, using the exact terms from the context.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "De onde se originou a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "na Ásia Central ou na Ásia Oriental."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a Peste Negra chegou ao Mediterrâneo e à Europa?",
    "resposta": "por navios mercantes genoveses."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quanto da população europeia matou a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "30% a 60% da população da Europa."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando a população da Europa recuperou o nível anterior após a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "cerca de 200 anos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que ano a Peste Negra começou?",
    "resposta": "1346."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a principal doença associada à Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "a peste bubônica."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o principal vetor de transmissão da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "a pulga oriental do ratinho."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto da Peste Negra na população mundial?",
    "resposta": "reduziu a população mundial de 475 milhões para 350–375 milhões no século XIV."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a bactéria responsável pela Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Yersinia pestis."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Por meio de que rota a Peste Negra se espalhou para a Ásia?",
    "resposta": "via a Rota da Seda."
  }
]