<think>
Okay, let's tackle this. The user wants me to generate 10 question-answer pairs in Portuguese based on the provided context and facts about Jacksonville, Florida. First, I need to make sure I understand the context and the facts given.

Looking at the context, Jacksonville is the most populous city in Florida, located in Duval County, and it's the third largest on the East Coast. It was founded in 1791, incorporated in 1832, and has a population of nearly 950,000 as of the 2020 census. It's on the St. Johns River, 40 km south of Georgia's border, and 528 km north of Miami. The area was originally inhabited by the Timucua, and there's a mention of Fort Caroline from 1564. Andrew Jackson is the namesake, and the Super Bowl 39 was held there in 2005.

Now, the facts provided include various events, teams, places, and people associated with Jacksonville. For example, the 2015 Fort Lauderdale Strikers season is based there, the 2020 movie "Double or Nothing" is set in Jacksonville, 95 South has its origin there, the SS Harald Torsvik was built by Jacksonville, etc. There are also details about the population, weather, landmarks, and other cities or organizations linked to Jacksonville.

The user wants 10 unique questions that cover different aspects of the provided information. The examples given in the query include questions about population rank, location, historical events, and specific facts. So, I need to ensure that each question is distinct and covers different elements from the facts and context.

I should avoid repeating similar questions. For instance, the example has a question about the population rank, another about the county, another about the river, etc. So, I need to create questions that are varied, covering different facts from the context and the list of facts provided.

Looking at the facts, there are several points about sports teams, places, historical events, and other cities or organizations. For example, the Jacksonville Beaches are along the Atlantic coast, the Jacksonville, Florida image is "LennyCurryJAX.jpg", the population in 2020 is 950,000, the temperature in February is 46.1°F, the rainfall in June is 7.6 inches, the area is 490.63 km², etc.

I need to make sure each question is based on the facts provided. Let me list out possible questions:

1. What is the population of Jacksonville according to the 2020 census?
2. Which river is Jacksonville located near?
3. What is the nickname of Jacksonville?
4. What is the name of the historical colony established in 1564?
5. In which year was Jacksonville incorporated?
6. What is the name of the stadium where the 2010 Houston Texans season was held?
7. Which famous person was born in Jacksonville?
8. What is the name of the image associated with Jacksonville?
9. What is the temperature minimum in February for Jacksonville?
10. Which sports team is based in Jacksonville?

Wait, but the example already has a question about the population, so I need to avoid that. Also, the user provided specific data points. Let me check the facts again to find unique points.

Another possible question: What is the name of the building located in Jacksonville? (Building A, FSCJ.jpg)

Or: Which team's season is based in Jacksonville? (Fort Lauderdale Strikers in 2015)

Or: What is the name of the bridge located in Jacksonville? (Fuller Warren Bridge)

Or: Which famous person died in Jacksonville? (J. William Stanton)

Or: What is the name of the historic site in Jacksonville? (Napoleon Bonaparte Broward House)

Also, the answer to the question about the nickname is "Jax", "The River City", etc.

I need to ensure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me check the facts again to find the right points.

Another point: The city's type is "Location100027167" and "Q515".

Also, the population in 2020 is 950,000, the rank is 12th, the county is Duval, the river is St. Johns, the distance to Miami is 528 km, the nickname is "Jax", "The River City", etc.

So, compiling 10 questions:

1. What is the population of Jacksonville according to the 2020 census? (950,000)
2. In which county is Jacksonville located? (Duval)
3. Which river is near Jacksonville? (St. Johns)
4. What is the nickname of Jacksonville? ("Jax", "The River City", etc.)
5. What is the name of the historical colony established in 1564? (Fort Caroline)
6. What is the name of the image associated with Jacksonville? (LennyCurryJAX.jpg)
7. What is the name of the bridge located in Jacksonville? (Fuller Warren Bridge)
8. Which famous person died in Jacksonville? (J. William Stanton)
9. What is the name of the historic house in Jacksonville? (Napoleon Bonaparte Broward House)
10. What is the name of the stadium where the 2010 Houston Texans season was held? (Jacksonville Jags Stadium, but the fact says "Jacksonville, Florida" is the location, but the actual stadium is maybe different. Wait, the fact says "2010 Houston Texans season" is in Jacksonville, but the actual stadium is the Jacksonville Jags, but the problem is the fact may not mention the stadium's name. Maybe the answer is "Jacksonville Jags Stadium" or just "Jacksonville" as the location. But the user's example had a question about the stadium where the 2010 season was held, and the answer is "Jacksonville Jags Stadium". However, in the facts provided, the user has "2010 Houston Texans season está localizado em Jacksonville, Florida". So the answer would be "Jacksonville, Florida" as the location, but maybe the stadium is "Jacksonville Jags Stadium". But the user's example had "Jacksonville" as the answer. Hmm, need to check the facts again.

Wait, the user's examples include a question about the stadium where the 2010 Houston Texans season was held, and the answer is "Jacksonville, Florida". But in reality, the Houston Texans play at Reliant Stadium in Houston, but the user's facts mention that the 2010 season was in Jacksonville. Maybe it's a mistake, but according to the given facts, the answer is "Jacksonville, Florida".

So, maybe the answer is "Jacksonville, Florida".

But the example in the user's instruction has a question about the 2010 season and the answer is "1.345.596", but that's about population. Wait, no, the example had a question about the population in 2010, but the user's facts don't mention that. Wait, the user's example may have been incorrect, but I need to follow the user's provided facts.

So, in the given facts, the user says "2010 Houston Texans season está localizado em Jacksonville, Florida". So the answer would be "Jacksonville, Florida".

So, the questions can be:

1. What is the population of Jacksonville according to the 2020 census?
2. In which county is Jacksonville located?
3. Which river is near Jacksonville?
4. What is the nickname of Jacksonville?
5. What is the name of the historical colony established in 1564?
6. What is the name of the image associated with Jacksonville?
7. What is the name of the bridge located in Jacksonville?
8. Which famous person died in Jacksonville?
9. What is the name of the historic house in Jacksonville?
10. Where was the 2010 Houston Texans season held?

But the user's example already has a question about the population, so maybe the answer for that is "950,000". However, in the user's example, the answer is "1.345.596", which is not in the context provided. Wait, the user's example may have been from a different source, but according to the current context, the 2020 population is 950,000. So, the answer should be that.

So, the ten questions would be based on these points. Let me make sure each question is unique and based on the facts given.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a população de Jacksonville segundo o censo de 2020?",
    "resposta": "950.000"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em qual condado reside Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "Duval"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do rio próximo a Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "St. Johns"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os apelidos de Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "Jax", "The River City", "The Bold New City of the South"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome da colônia francesa fundada em 1564?",
    "resposta": "Fort Caroline"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome da imagem associada a Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "LennyCurryJAX.jpg"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do ponte localizado em Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "Fuller Warren Bridge"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem morreu em Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "J. William Stanton"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do histórico casa em Jacksonville?",
    "resposta": "Napoleon Bonaparte Broward House"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Onde foi realizado o campeonato da 2010 Houston Texans?",
    "resposta": "Jacksonville, Florida"
  }
]