<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 objective question-answer pairs based on the provided context about the 1973 oil crisis. Let me start by carefully reading the context and facts given.

First, the context mentions that the crisis began in October 1973 when OPEC members imposed an oil embargo on countries supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. The countries affected initially were Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, the UK, and the US, later expanding to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. The oil price rose from $3 to $12 per barrel, with higher prices in the US. This caused the "first oil shock," followed by the 1979 crisis called the "second oil shock."

The facts include some ontology data, but the main content is in the context. The examples provided by the user show that the questions should be varied and cover different aspects. So, I need to make sure each question is unique and addresses different parts of the information.

Let me list possible questions:

1. When did the 1973 oil crisis start?
2. Which countries were initially targeted by the oil embargo?
3. What was the price of oil in March 1974?
4. What was another name for the 1973 oil crisis?
5. Who imposed the oil embargo?
6. What was the main reason for the embargo?
7. Which countries joined the embargo later?
8. What was the impact of the embargo on oil prices?
9. What was the result of the embargo in terms of economic crisis?
10. When did the embargo end?

Wait, but the user's examples included some of these. Let me check the examples to avoid repetition. The user's examples include questions about the start date, price in March, the second shock, the embargo's name, the countries targeted, the reason for the embargo, and the end date. So I need to make sure the new questions are different but still based on the context.

Looking again at the context, the embargo was directed at nations supporting Israel, and the countries initially targeted were Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US, then expanded to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. The price went from $3 to $12, with US prices higher. The embargo caused a crisis called the first oil shock, followed by the second in 1979.

So possible questions:

1. What was the main cause of the 1973 oil crisis?
2. Which countries were initially affected by the embargo?
3. What was the price of oil in March 1974?
4. What was the name of the crisis caused by the embargo?
5. Which countries joined the embargo later?
6. What was the effect of the embargo on the US?
7. What was the result of the embargo in terms of economic impact?
8. What was the name of the second oil crisis?
9. When did the embargo end?
10. What was the main reason for the embargo?

I need to make sure each question is unique and based on the facts. Let me check each against the context to ensure they are correct. Also, the answer must be directly from the text or inferable from it.

Another thing: the user's examples included the start date, price in March, the name of the second shock, the embargo's name, the initial countries, the reason for the embargo, the expansion of the embargo, the price increase, the economic crisis, and the end date. So the new questions should not repeat these. Maybe focus on the countries that joined later, the reason for the embargo, the impact on the US, the economic effects, the name of the second shock, the expansion of the embargo, and the overall impact.

Wait, the user's example had a question about the reason for the embargo, which was "supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War." So that's covered. Let me make sure the new questions are different. Maybe the countries that joined later, the effect on the US, the economic impact, the name of the second shock, and the end date.

Alternatively, other aspects: the role of OPEC, the duration of the embargo, the countries that were not targeted, etc. But the context doesn't mention that. Let me stick to the given info.

So, here's a list of possible 10 questions:

1. What was the main reason for the oil embargo in 1973?
2. Which countries were initially targeted by the embargo?
3. What was the price of oil in March 1974?
4. What was the name of the economic crisis caused by the embargo?
5. Which countries joined the embargo later?
6. What was the effect of the embargo on the United States?
7. What was the name of the second oil crisis?
8. When did the embargo end?
9. What was the main international conflict that led to the embargo?
10. What was the name of the organization that imposed the embargo?

Now, checking each against the context:

1. The reason is supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. Correct.
2. The initial countries are Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, US. Correct.
3. The price in March 1974 was almost $12. Correct.
4. The name is "first oil shock." Correct.
5. The countries that joined later are Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa. Correct.
6. The effect on the US was higher prices. Correct.
7. The second oil crisis was in 1979. Correct.
8. The embargo ended in March 1974. Correct.
9. The conflict is the Yom Kippur War. Correct.
10. The organization is OPEC (Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes). Correct.

These all seem to be covered in the context. Now, I need to phrase them as questions and ensure the answers are accurate. Also, check for any possible duplicates or overlaps with the examples provided. The user's examples included questions about the start date, the price in March, the name of the second shock, the embargo's name, the initial countries, the reason for the embargo, the expansion of the embargo, and the end date. So the new questions should be different, but the above list seems to avoid that. For example, the user's example had a question about the reason for the embargo, but the new question is the same. However, the user's example might have been part of the examples given, so maybe I should not repeat that. Wait, the user's examples are given as examples, but the user is asking for 10 pairs now. So I need to make sure that the new questions are different. Let me check again.

In the user's examples, there's a question about the reason for the embargo. So maybe to avoid repetition, I should not include that. Alternatively, if that's allowed, since the user's examples are just examples and the actual answer can include similar questions. But the user might want to avoid repeating the same questions. However, the user's instruction says to generate 10 pairs, so maybe it's okay as long as the answers are correct.

Alternatively, perhaps the questions can be phrased differently. For example, in the user's example, the question was "Which countries were initially targeted by the oil embargo?" and the answer was Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, and US. So the new question could be about the countries that joined later. That's covered in the 5th question.

So the 10 questions I have are all based on the context, and the answers are correct. I think that's acceptable. Now, I need to format them as JSON with the required structure.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o principal motivo para a imposição do embargo de petróleo em 1973?",
    "resposta": "apoio ao Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do embargo de petróleo?",
    "resposta": "Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o preço do petróleo em março de 1974?",
    "resposta": "quase US $ 12."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o nome do crise econômica causada pelo embargo?",
    "resposta": "primeiro choque do petróleo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países se juntaram ao embargo após o início?",
    "resposta": "Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto do embargo nos Estados Unidos?",
    "resposta": "preços mais altos do petróleo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o nome da segunda crise do petróleo?",
    "resposta": "segundo choque do petróleo."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando o embargo terminou?",
    "resposta": "março de 1974."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a principal conflito internacional que desencadeou o embargo?",
    "resposta": "Guerra de Yom Kippur."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a organização que impôs o embargo?",
    "resposta": "Organização dos Países Exportadores de Petróleo Árabes."
  }
]