<think>
Okay, let's tackle this query. The user wants me to generate 10 pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts about the 1973 oil crisis. The output needs to be in JSON format, strictly following the structure given. 

First, I need to thoroughly understand the context. The 1973 oil crisis started in October 1973 when OPEC (specifically Arab members) imposed an oil embargo. The targets were countries supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War, like the US, Japan, and others. The price of oil skyrocketed from $3 to $12 per barrel, leading to economic and political impacts globally, known as the first oil shock, followed by the 1979 crisis.

Next, the facts provided are a list of technical data about the 1973 oil crisis, including types, categories, images, models, etc. But I need to focus on the context for the questions. The facts might not all be relevant, so I should prioritize the key points from the context.

The user emphasized that questions must be varied, cover different aspects, and have a single correct answer. Also, no repetition of similar questions. So I need to think of different angles: causes, effects, timeline, key players, consequences, related terms, etc.

Let me brainstorm possible questions:

1. When did the 1973 oil crisis begin? (Answer: October 1973)
2. Which organization imposed the embargo? (Answer: OPEC, specifically Arab members)
3. Which countries were targeted initially? (Answer: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, USA)
4. How did the oil price change? (Answer: From $3 to $12)
5. What was the name given to this crisis? (Answer: First oil shock)
6. When did the embargo end? (Answer: March 1974)
7. What was the impact of the crisis? (Answer: Economic and political effects globally)
8. Which subsequent crisis followed? (Answer: 1979 oil crisis, second oil shock)
9. What was the reason for the embargo? (Answer: Support for Israel during Yom Kippur War)
10. What were the consequences for the US? (Answer: Higher prices, economic challenges)

Wait, but I need to check if all these answers are explicitly in the context. The context mentions the embargo was directed at nations supporting Israel during the Yom Kippur War. The answer to question 9 should be that. Also, the context says the embargo was declared by OPEC members. The answer to question 2 should be "membros da Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP)" as per the context. 

I need to ensure that each answer is directly from the context. For example, the answer to when the embargo ended is "em março de 1974" as per the context. Also, the first oil shock is mentioned. 

Let me check the examples provided. They include questions about start date, price increase, second crisis, terms, who declared the embargo, etc. So I need to make sure my questions are different but still based on the context.

Another angle: the expansion of the embargo to Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa. So a question about which countries were added later. Also, the impact on the US prices being higher. 

So possible questions:

- Which countries were added to the embargo after the initial targets? (Answer: Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa)
- What was the effect of the embargo on the US? (Answer: Prices were even higher)
- What is another name for the 1973 crisis? (Answer: First oil shock)
- What was the result of the embargo on the global economy? (Answer: Crisis or "oil shock", with short and long-term effects)
- What was the role of the US in the context? (Not directly, but maybe about the Nixon administration's actions? However, the context doesn't mention Nixon's specific actions, but the example includes a question about Nixon. Wait, the context doesn't mention Nixon, but the example does. Wait, the context provided doesn't have info about Nixon, but the example includes that. Wait, the user's example includes a question about Nixon, but the context given here doesn't mention Nixon. So I need to avoid that. The user's example might have been based on other data, but in this case, the context provided doesn't mention Nixon. So I shouldn't include that. Therefore, I need to stick strictly to the given context.

So, to avoid including information not in the context, I need to make sure all answers are from the context. Let me recheck the context:

- The embargo was directed at nations supporting Israel during Yom Kippur War. Targeted countries: Canada, Japan, Netherlands, UK, USA, later Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa.
- Price increased from $3 to $12, with higher prices in the US.
- The embargo caused a crisis, or "oil shock," with effects on politics and economy.
- Called the first oil shock, followed by the 1979 crisis (second oil shock).

So the questions should be based on these points. Let me list 10:

1. When did the 1973 oil crisis begin? (Answer: outubro de 1973)
2. Which organization imposed the oil embargo? (Answer: Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP))
3. Which countries were initially targeted by the embargo? (Answer: Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos)
4. How much did the oil price increase during the crisis? (Answer: de US $ 3 para US $ 12)
5. What was the name given to the 1973 crisis? (Answer: primeiro choque do petróleo)
6. When did the embargo end? (Answer: março de 1974)
7. Which countries were added to the embargo later? (Answer: Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul)
8. What was the impact of the embargo on the global economy? (Answer: crise ou "choque do petróleo", com efeitos políticos e econômicos)
9. What was the subsequent crisis after 1973? (Answer: 1979)
10. Why was the embargo imposed? (Answer: por apoiar Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur)

I need to check that each answer is directly from the context. For example, the answer to question 1 is "outubro de 1973" as per the context. Question 2: "membros da Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP)" in the context. Question 3: the initial targets are listed. Question 4: the price increase. Question 5: "primeiro choque do" as per the context. Question 6: "março de 1974". Question 7: the context mentions "Posteriormente, Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul". Question 8: "causou uma crise ou 'choque do petróleo', com efeitos políticos e econômicos globais". Question 9: "segunda crise do petróleo" is mentioned as "segundo choque do petróleo" in the example, but the context says "segunda crise do petróleo" in the example. Wait, the context says "segunda crise do petróleo" in the example? Wait, the context provided by the user says: "segundo choque do petróleo" in the example. Wait, in the user's example, the answer is "1979," but in the context provided, it says "segundo choque do petróleo" (second oil shock). So the answer should be "segundo choque do petróleo" or "1979". But the context says "segundo choque do petróleo" as the second crisis. However, the example answer for the second crisis is "1979," which is correct historically, but the context here mentions "segundo choque do petróleo" as the name. But the user's example includes "1979" as the answer. However, the context provided here doesn't mention the year 1979 explicitly, only that it's the second crisis. Wait, the context says: "segundo choque do petróleo" but doesn't mention the year. However, the example answer for that question is "1979," which is correct historically, but in the context here, the user's context doesn't mention 1979. Therefore, I need to check if the context includes the year. 

Looking back at the user's context: 

The context says: "segundo choque do petróleo" but the exact date isn't mentioned. However, the example given by the user includes the answer "1979," which might be based on external knowledge. But the user's instruction is to base the answers strictly on the provided context. Since the context does not mention the year 1979, but the example does, there's a conflict. However, the user's instruction says to use the context provided. Therefore, if the context doesn't mention 1979, I shouldn't include it. But in the user's example, they have a question: "Quando foi a segunda crise do petróleo?" with answer "1979," which is correct, but the context provided here doesn't have that. Therefore, I need to check if the context includes that. 

Looking at the user's context: 

The context says: "segundo choque do petróleo" but not the year. So if the user's example includes "1979," but the context here doesn't, then I should avoid that. Therefore, the answer for the second crisis should be "segundo choque do petróleo" or "segunda crise do petróleo." However, the example answer is "1979," which is a year. But since the context here doesn't mention the year, I need to stick to the context's information. 

This is a bit tricky. The user's example might have included historical knowledge, but the current task is to use the provided context. Therefore, the answer should be "segundo choque do petróleo" or "segunda crise do petróleo" if that's in the context. 

Looking back at the user's context: 

The context says: "segundo choque do petróleo" (second oil shock) as the subsequent crisis. So the answer should be "segundo choque do petróleo" or "segunda crise do petróleo." However, the example answer is "1979," which is a year. But since the context here doesn't mention the year, I need to adjust. 

Therefore, the question could be: "Qual foi o nome dado à crise do petróleo de 1979?" but the context doesn't mention 1979. Alternatively, the question could be "Qual foi a crise subsequente à de 1973?" with answer "segundo choque do petróleo."

This requires careful checking. Since the user's example includes "1979" as the answer, but the context here doesn't mention that year, I have to decide based on the provided information. If the context doesn't specify the year, then the answer should refer to the name, not the year. Therefore, the answer would be "segundo choque do petróleo" or "segunda crise do petróleo."

But the user's example answer is "1979," which is correct historically, but not in the context provided. This might be a conflict. However, the user's instruction is to base answers strictly on the context. So I'll proceed with the information given in the context.

So, finalizing the 10 questions and answers based on the context:

1. Quando começou a crise do petróleo de 1973? 
   Resposta: outubro de 1973.

2. Quem proclamou o embargo do petróleo? 
   Resposta: membros da Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP).

3. Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do embargo? 
   Resposta: Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos.

4. Qual foi a variação no preço do petróleo durante a crise? 
   Resposta: de US $ 3 para US $ 12.

5. Qual foi o nome dado à crise de 1973? 
   Resposta: primeiro choque do petróleo.

6. Quando o embargo foi levantado? 
   Resposta: março de 1974.

7. Quais países foram adicionados ao embargo posteriormente? 
   Resposta: Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul.

8. Qual foi o impacto do embargo na economia global? 
   Resposta: crise ou "choque do petróleo", com efeitos políticos e econômicos globais.

9. Qual foi a crise subsequente à de 1973? 
   Resposta: segundo choque do petróleo.

10. Por que o embargo foi imposto? 
    Resposta: por apoiar Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur.

Now, checking if all answers are directly from the context. For example, the answer to question 9: the context says "segundo choque do petróleo" (second oil shock), so that's correct. The answer to question 10: "por apoiar Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur" is in the context. 

This should meet the user's requirements. Now, formatting into JSON as per the example.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando começou a crise do petróleo de 1973?",
    "resposta": "outubro de 1973,"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem proclamou o embargo do petróleo?",
    "resposta": "membros da Organização dos Países Árabes Exportadores de Petróleo (OPAEP)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram inicialmente alvo do embargo?",
    "resposta": "Canadá, Japão, Holanda, Reino Unido e Estados Unidos"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a variação no preço do petróleo durante a crise?",
    "resposta": "de US $ 3 para US $ 12"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o nome dado à crise de 1973?",
    "resposta": "primeiro choque do petróleo"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando o embargo foi levantado?",
    "resposta": "março de 1974"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais países foram adicionados ao embargo posteriormente?",
    "resposta": "Portugal, Rodesia e África do Sul"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o impacto do embargo na economia global?",
    "resposta": "crise ou 'choque do petróleo', com efeitos políticos e econômicos globais"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a crise subsequente à de 1973?",
    "resposta": "segundo choque do petróleo"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Por que o embargo foi imposto?",
    "resposta": "por apoiar Israel durante a Guerra de Yom Kippur"
  }
]