<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about Ctenophora. Let me start by carefully reading through the context and facts to identify key points that can be turned into questions. 

First, the context mentions that Ctenophora are marine animals with a cosmopolitan distribution, mostly planktonic, bioluminescent, and have cilia-based combs (ctenes) for movement. They are similar to medusae but not closely related. They have a fossil record from the Cambrian period.

Looking at the facts, there's a lot about taxonomic information, models used on Wikipedia pages, images associated, subdivisions like Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora, and specific species like Callianira hexagona, Vallicula, Coeloplana. Also, they are part of the Animalia kingdom, and some images are linked to them.

Now, I need to create varied questions that cover different aspects. Let's start with the basics: definition, what they are called, their movement, size, habitat, etc. Then move to taxonomy, subdivisions, images, and maybe some specific species.

Possible questions:
1. What is the common name for Ctenophora?
2. What is the primary locomotion method of Ctenophora?
3. What is the size range of adult Ctenophora?
4. What is the etymology of the term Ctenophora?
5. What is the primary habitat of Ctenophora?
6. Are Ctenophora related to Cnidaria?
7. What is the significance of the Cambrian fossil record for Ctenophora?
8. What are the subdivisions of Ctenophora?
9. What is a notable feature distinguishing Ctenophora from Medusae?
10. What is the role of cilia in Ctenophora's movement?

Now, checking the facts for accuracy. The common names are carambolas-do-mar and águas-vivas-de-pente. Their movement is via ctenes (comb rows). Size up to 1.5m. Etymology from Greek for comb and carry. Habitat is marine. Not closely related to Cnidaria. Cambrian fossils. Subdivisions include Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora. Distinctive feature is the ctenes. Also, they are bioluminescent.

Wait, some of the examples in the prompt repeated questions, like "Qual o tamanho da ctenophora?" twice. Need to ensure uniqueness. Also, the user wants 10 pairs, each with a unique question.

Let me structure each question based on the context and facts:

1. What are Ctenophora commonly known as? Answer: carambolas-do-mar or águas-vivas-de-pente.
2. What feature do Ctenophora use for locomotion? Answer: ctenes (groups of cilia).
3. What is the maximum size of adult Ctenophora? Answer: 1.5 meters.
4. What is the etymological origin of the term Ctenophora? Answer: Greek for comb (kteis) and carry (pherō).
5. In which geological period are Ctenophora first recorded in the fossil record? Answer: Cambrian.
6. What is the primary habitat of Ctenophora? Answer: marine environments (oceanic and estuarine).
7. What are the main subdivisions of Ctenophora? Answer: Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora.
8. How does the locomotion of Ctenophora differ from that of Cnidaria? Answer: Ctenophora use ctenes, while Cnidaria use tentacles for movement.
9. What is a key characteristic distinguishing Ctenophora from Medusae? Answer: Ctenophora have ctenes for movement, while Medusae use tentacles.
10. Are Ctenophora bioluminescent? Answer: Yes, some species are bioluminescent.

Wait, need to ensure answers are directly from the context. The context says "bioluminescent" but doesn't specify all are, but some. Also, the example had "fluxo de água através da cavidade do corpo" for digestion and respiration, but that might not be in the context. Let me check again.

The context mentions "bioluminescent" but not about digestion and respiration. The examples included that, but maybe that's from the facts. Wait, the facts don't mention that. The user's example includes that, but the original context doesn't. So I need to stick strictly to the provided context and facts. The example might have included that, but the user's instruction says to use only the provided content.

Wait, the context says: "bioluminescent, que apresentam como característica distintiva a presença de pentes..." So they are bioluminescent. But not all, some. However, the context says "são bioluminescentes" (are bioluminescent). So maybe the answer should be "sim, são bioluminescentes" (yes, they are bioluminescent). 

Also, the context states they are "maioritariamente planctónicos, alguns bentónicos" so habitat is primarily planktonic, some benthic. But the user's example says "águas marinhas" which is correct. 

I need to ensure that each answer is from the context or facts. Let me list all the key points again:

- Filo de animais marinhos, cosmopolita, planctônicos, bentônicos, bioluminescentes.
- Característica distintiva: pentes (ctenes) formados por cílios.
- Tamanho: 1mm a 1,5m.
- Similaridade com medusas, mas convergência evolutiva, não relação próxima com Cnidaria.
- Fósseis desde o Cambriano.
- Subdivisões: Tentaculata, Nuda, Scleroctenophora.
- Nomes comuns: carambolas-do-mar, águas-vivas-de-pente.
- Etimologia: grego kteis (comb) e pherō (carry).
- Alguns são bioluminescentes.

So possible questions and answers:

1. Quais são os nomes comuns dos Ctenophora? Resposta: carambolas-do-mar ou águas-vivas-de-pente.
2. Qual a característica distintiva dos Ctenophora? Resposta: presença de pentes formados por grupos de cílios.
3. Qual o tamanho máximo de Ctenophora adultos? Resposta: 1,5 m de comprimento.
4. Qual o período geológico em que os Ctenophora são registrados como fósseis? Resposta: Cambriano.
5. O que significa a palavra Ctenophora em grego? Resposta: kteis (comb) e pherō (carry).
6. Em que tipo de ambientes os Ctenophora são encontrados? Resposta: águas oceânicas e estuarinas.
7. Quais são as principais subdivisões do filo Ctenophora? Resposta: Tentaculata, Nuda e Scleroctenophora.
8. Como os Ctenophora se locomovem? Resposta: utilizando pentes formados por cílios.
9. Os Ctenophora são relacionados filogeneticamente aos Cnidaria? Resposta: não, as semelhanças são convergência evolutiva.
10. Os Ctenophora são bioluminescentes? Resposta: sim, alguns são bioluminescentes.

That's 10 questions. Let me check if any are repeated or not covered. Yes, each is unique and covers different aspects. The answers are all from the context. Now, need to format them into JSON as specified.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são os nomes comuns dos Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "carambolas-do-mar ou águas-vivas-de-pente"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual a característica distintiva dos Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "presença de pentes formados por grupos de cílios"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual o tamanho máximo de Ctenophora adultos?",
    "resposta": "1,5 m de comprimento"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual o período geológico em que os Ctenophora são registrados como fósseis?",
    "resposta": "Cambriano"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "O que significa a palavra Ctenophora em grego?",
    "resposta": "kteis (comb) e pherō (carry)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que tipo de ambientes os Ctenophora são encontrados?",
    "resposta": "águas oceânicas e estuarinas"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são as principais subdivisões do filo Ctenophora?",
    "resposta": "Tentaculata, Nuda e Scleroctenophora"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como os Ctenophora se locomovem?",
    "resposta": "utilizando pentes formados por cílios"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Os Ctenophora são relacionados filogeneticamente aos Cnidaria?",
    "resposta": "não, as semelhanças são convergência evolutiva"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Os Ctenophora são bioluminescentes?",
    "resposta": "sim, alguns são bioluminescentes"
  }
]