<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts about the Black Death. Let me start by carefully reading through the context and the facts to make sure I understand all the key points.

First, the context mentions that the Black Death originated in Central Asia or East Asia and spread via the Silk Road to Crimea, then to Europe through Genoese ships. It caused 30-60% mortality in Europe, reducing the world population from 475 million to 350-375 million in the 14th century. The population recovery took about 200 years. The plague had various forms like bubonic, septicemic, and pneumonic, caused by Yersinia pestis. It had significant social, religious, and economic impacts. The plague returned as outbreaks until the early 20th century.

Looking at the facts, there are a lot of specific data points: the number of deaths (75-200 million), images, categories, dates (like 1346), and some other technical terms like models used in Wikipedia. However, the user wants questions that are relevant and based on the context, so I should focus on the main points from the context rather than the technical Wikipedia models.

The examples provided by the user include questions about origin, spread, mortality rates, recovery time, and some specific details like the number of deaths. I need to ensure that the questions are varied and cover different aspects without repetition.

Let me brainstorm possible questions:

1. Origin of the Black Death (already in examples, so maybe rephrase or use different wording).
2. How it spread to Europe (covered in examples).
3. Mortality rate in Europe.
4. Population recovery time.
5. Cause of the plague (Yersinia pestis).
6. Forms of the plague (bubonic, etc.).
7. Impact on society and economy.
8. When it started (1346 mentioned).
9. Total population reduction.
10. When it returned as outbreaks.

Wait, the examples already have some of these. Let me check the examples again to avoid repetition. The examples have questions about origin, spread, mortality, recovery time, duration, and some dates. I need to ensure the new questions are different.

Another angle: the role of rats and fleas, the impact on the population in specific regions, the duration of the pandemic, the effect on the economy, religious impact, etc.

Also, the facts mention some categories like "Category:1340s in Europe," so maybe a question about the time period. Also, the number of deaths is given as 75-200 million, so that's a key point.

Let me list the questions:

1. What was the primary cause of the Black Death?
2. How did the Black Death spread from Asia to Europe?
3. What percentage of the European population died from the Black Death?
4. How long did it take for Europe's population to recover from the Black Death?
5. Which bacteria was responsible for the Black Death?
6. What were the different forms of the Black Death?
7. When did the Black Death first reach Europe?
8. What was the estimated reduction in the world population during the Black Death?
9. What were the social and economic impacts of the Black Death?
10. When did the Black Death return as outbreaks after the initial pandemic?

Now, check the answers based on the context:

1. Yersinia pestis (from context).
2. Through Genoese ships carrying rats with fleas (from context).
3. 30-60% (from context).
4. About 200 years (from context).
5. Yersinia pestis (from context).
6. Bubonic, septicemic, pneumonic (from context).
7. 1346 (from facts).
8. From 475 million to 350-375 million (from context).
9. Social, religious, economic convulsions (from context).
10. Until the early 20th century (from context).

Wait, the context says "retornou várias vezes como surtos até ao início do século XX." So the answer for question 10 would be "até o início do século XX."

Now, I need to structure these into 10 pairs, ensuring each is unique and answers are correct. Also, check if any of the examples already have similar questions to avoid duplication. For instance, the example about when the population recovered is covered in the fourth question here. So I need to ensure the questions are varied enough.

Let me adjust the questions to cover different aspects. For example, the impact on the economy and religion, the role of the flea and rat, the number of deaths, etc.

Finalizing the 10 questions and answers, making sure they are based on the context and not the technical facts like Wikipedia models. Also, check that the answers are directly inferred from the context provided.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a causa principal da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "A bactéria Yersinia pestis."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Como a Peste Negra chegou à Europa?",
    "resposta": "Através de navios mercantes genoveses que transportavam ratos com pulgas."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos por cento da população europeia morreram com a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "30 a 60% da população total da Europa."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos anos levaram para a população europeia se recuperar da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Cerca de 200 anos."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram as formas da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Bubônica, septicêmica e pneumônica."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando a Peste Negra chegou pela primeira vez à Europa?",
    "resposta": "Em 1346."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi a redução estimada da população mundial durante a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "De 475 milhões para 350 a 375 milhões."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais foram os impactos sociais e econômicos da Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Concussões sociais, religiosas e econômicas."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quando a Peste Negra retornou como surtos após a pandemia inicial?",
    "resposta": "Até o início do século XX."
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quantos milhões de pessoas morreram com a Peste Negra?",
    "resposta": "Entre 75 e 200 milhões."
  }
]