Here is a sample quiz based on the instructions:

Question 1: What was the main reason for the Normans to settle in Normandy?
Answer 1: The Normans settled in Normandy because of the intermingling between Norse Viking settlers and indigenous West Franks and Gallo-Romans.

Question 2: Who was the leader who agreed to swear fealty to King Charles III of West Francia after the siege of Chartres in 911?
Answer 2: The leader who agreed to swear fealty to King Charles III of West Francia after the siege of Chartres in 911 was Rollo, a Scandinavian Viking leader.

Question 3: What was the name of the language spoken by the Normans in Normandy?
Answer 3: The name of the language spoken by the Normans in Normandy was Norman, Normaund or Norman French.

Question 4: When was the Norman dynasty established?
Answer 4: The Norman dynasty was established in the first half of the 10th century.

Question 5: What was the main purpose of the Norman conquest of England?
Answer 5: The main purpose of the Norman conquest of England was to secure a steady supply of troops and resources for the duchy of Normandy.

Question 6: Who was responsible for the creation of the Romanesque architecture in Normandy?
Answer 6: The Romanesque architecture in Normandy was created by the Normans, who were known for their unique architectural style.

Question 7: What was the name of the musical tradition that developed among the Normans?
Answer 7: The name of the musical tradition that developed among the Normans was Norman music.

Question 8: When did the Normans become Frenchmen?
Answer 8: The Normans became Frenchmen at the end of the reign of Richard I of Normandy (byname "Richard sans Peur" meaning "Richard the Fearless") in 996.

Question 9: What was the main reason for the Norman conquest of England?
Answer 9: The main reason for the Norman conquest of England was to gain control over the English throne and secure a steady supply of troops and resources for the duchy of Normandy.

Question 10: Who was responsible for the introduction of French legal ideas and customs in Normandy?
Answer 10: The Normans were responsible for the introduction of French legal ideas and customs in Normandy, as they had adopted the French language and culture.