<think>
Okay, I need to generate a CSV file based on the provided information. Let me start by understanding the structure of the data. The user has given a series of questions and answers in Portuguese, each related to different aspects of Norman history, art, architecture, law, etc. Each entry seems to be a question followed by its answer. My task is to convert these into a CSV format with two columns: "Pergunta" (Question) and "Resposta" (Answer).

First, I'll go through each line and extract the questions and answers. For example, the first entry is "Você" followed by "Você", but looking at the context, it seems like the user provided a list of questions and answers. However, the initial lines might be instructions or part of the problem setup. Let me check the content again.

Looking at the content, after the initial "Você" lines, there are entries like "Você" and "Você", but then there's a section with "Contexto 38" and others. Wait, the user included multiple contexts with questions and answers. For example, under Contexto 38, there's a question about the century of developments in classical music in Normandy and the answer is "século XI". Then, under Contexto 39, there's a question about where the monks fled and the answer is "sul da Itália".

I need to extract all such question-answer pairs. The user also provided some examples in the middle, like "Quantos costumes tem o direito costumeiro normando? dois" which translates to "How many customs does the Norman customary law have? two". These should be included in the CSV.

I need to make sure that each question is paired with its correct answer. Some entries might be part of the same context, like in Contexto 38, there are two questions: one about the century and another about the two abbots. Each should be a separate row in the CSV.

I'll go through each context one by one, identify the questions and answers, and list them in the CSV format. Also, I need to ensure that the answers are correctly matched with their corresponding questions. For example, in Contexto 36, the question "Qual é a peça mais conhecida da arte normanda?" has the answer "tapeçaria de Bayeux".

I should also check for any possible duplicates or errors in the data. For instance, in Contexto 38, the answer to the first question is "século XI" and the second answer is "William de Volpiano e John de Ravenna". Each of these should be separate entries in the CSV.

Once all the entries are extracted, I'll format them into the CSV with the correct headers and ensure that the encoding is appropriate, probably UTF-8 to handle special characters in Portuguese.

I need to be careful not to include any lines that are not actual question-answer pairs. The initial lines with "Você" and the final instruction might be part of the problem setup, so they should not be included in the CSV.

Finally, I'll compile all the extracted pairs into a CSV file with two columns: "Pergunta" and "Resposta", ensuring that each row corresponds to a unique question and its answer.
</think>

```csv
Pergunta;Resposta
Quantos costumes tem o direito costumeiro normando?;dois
Onde estão Jersey e Guernsey;Ilhas do Canal.
Qual é o idioma da arquitetura normanda?;românico
Que tipo de arcos possui a arquitetura Norman?;arredondados
Que tipo de arquitetura veio depois de Norman na Inglaterra?;nício do gótico.
Que tipo de arquitetura veio antes de Norman na Inglaterra?;nglo-saxão
Que lugar tinha o estilo arquitetônico árabe normando?;Sicília.
Quando a reforma da igreja começou?;início do século
Quem usou a igreja para se unir?;duques
Qual é a peça mais conhecida da arte normanda?;tapeçaria de Bayeux
Quem encomendou a tapeçaria?;Odo
Qual é o tipo mais importante de arte normanda preservada nas igrejas?;mosaicos
Em que século ocorreram importantes desenvolvimentos da música clássica na Normandia?;século XI
Quem eram os dois abades na Abadia de Fécamp?;William de Volpiano e John de Ravenna
Para onde os monges fugiram?;sul da Itália
Que mosteiro os monges de Saint-Evroul estabeleceram na Itália?;osteiro latino em Sant'Eufemia.
Quem frequentou os monges na Itália?;Robert Guiscard
Por que tradição os monges de Saint-Evroul eram conhecidos?;canto
Quando foram as guerras religiosas francesas?;século XVI
```