<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the given context and facts. Let me start by understanding the context provided. The main topic here is "Império" (Empire), its definition, characteristics, and examples like the Roman Empire. Then there's a list of facts related to "Imperialism" which includes various models, images, categories, and other related entities.

First, I should focus on the context about empires. The definition mentions that an empire is a large territory with diverse nations, governed by a sovereign or oligarchy. It's created through conquest and has a central authority over peripheral regions. The Roman Empire is highlighted as a key example.

Now, looking at the facts, there's a lot about imperialism, its models, images, categories, and associated parties. But the user wants questions based on both the context and the facts. However, the initial context is about "Império" (Empire), while the facts are about "Imperialism" which might be related but not exactly the same. Wait, maybe there's a translation issue here. The user might be using "Imperialism" in the context of "Império" (Empire), so perhaps they are the same in this context. But I need to check the examples provided. The examples given are about imperialism, its origins, administration, etc. So maybe the context is actually about imperialism, not empire. The initial context seems to be about the term "Império" (Empire), but the facts are about "Imperialism" (Imperialism), which could be related but not the same. However, the examples generated by the user are about imperialism, so perhaps the context was meant to be about imperialism, not empire. Maybe there was a translation error. Alternatively, the user might be using "Império" as the term for empire, and "Imperialism" as the concept of imperialism, which is related but different. But the examples mix both, so I need to be careful.

Wait, the initial context says that the term "Império" comes from Latin "imperium" meaning power and authority. Then it describes empires as large territories with diverse nations, governed by a sovereign. Then the facts are about "Imperialism" with various models, images, categories, etc. The examples provided by the user are about imperialism, not empire. So maybe the user is using "Império" (Empire) and "Imperialism" (Imperialism) as related but different concepts. However, the user's instruction is to generate questions based on the context and facts provided. The context is about empires, the facts are about imperialism. But the examples given by the user are about imperialism. So perhaps the user intended the context to be about imperialism, not empire. Maybe there was a mistake in the context translation. Alternatively, the context is about empire, and the facts are about imperialism, but they are related. However, the user's examples are about imperialism, which suggests that the main topic is imperialism, not empire. This is a bit confusing.

Alternatively, maybe the user is using "Império" (Empire) and "Imperialism" (Imperialism) as the same concept. But in reality, an empire is a political entity, while imperialism is the policy or practice of extending a country's power through colonization, use of military force, or other means. So they are related but distinct. However, given the examples provided, which are about imperialism, and the facts, which are also about imperialism, I think the user intended the context to be about imperialism, not empire. Perhaps the initial context was mistranslated or misworded. So I should focus on the facts about imperialism and the examples given.

Looking at the facts again: there's mention of various models used by imperialism (like Template:Cite encyclopedia, Template:Legend, etc.), images related to imperialism (like Russian troops entering Tiflis, British ships in Canton, etc.), categories (Category:History of colonialism, Category:Marxian economics), and various parties and books related to imperialism. Also, there's mention of Wolfgang Mommsen, Michael Parenti, etc., who are associated with imperialism.

So the key points here are that imperialism is a concept related to the extension of a country's power, often through colonization, military force, and includes various models, images, categories, and associated figures and parties. The examples provided by the user are about imperialism's origins (Latin), administration (military force), application to countries (Japanese), dissemination of technologies, extension of power and influence, formal vs informal imperialism, etc.

Therefore, I need to generate 10 questions based on both the context (which might be about empire, but the examples and facts are about imperialism) and the facts provided. However, since the user's examples are about imperialism, I'll proceed with that.

Now, let's list possible questions:

1. What is the origin language of the term imperialism? (Answer: Latin)
2. How is imperialism typically administered? (Answer: Military force)
3. Which Eastern county was imperialism applied to? (Answer: Japanese)
4. What is imperialism responsible for spreading rapidly? (Answer: Technologies and ideas)
5. What does imperialism extend besides power? (Answer: Influence)
6. What type of imperialism is colonial domination considered? (Answer: Formal)
7. What technique does imperialism use to divide countries? (Answer: Other)
8. What is less direct in informal imperialism? (Answer: Direct)
9. What is an example of formal imperialism? (Answer: Forced trade agreement)
10. What type of imperialism is colonial occupation? (Answer: Formal)

Wait, some of these are similar to the examples. But the user said not to repeat similar questions. The examples given by the user are:

- Origin in Latin
- Administered by military force
- Applied to Japanese
- Spread technologies and ideas
- Extend power and influence
- Formal imperialism (colonial domination)
- Divide countries with "other"
- Less direct (direct)
- Forced trade agreement as formal
- Colonial occupation as formal

So the user's examples are already covering these points. Therefore, I need to generate different questions that are not covered in the examples but are still based on the context and facts provided.

Looking at the facts again:

- Wolfgang Mommsen works in Imperialism
- Imperialism has representative images (Roubaud, Russian troops entering Tiflis, etc.)
- Imperialism uses wiki templates (Template:Cite encyclopedia, Template:Legend, etc.)
- Alliance for National Reconstruction has ideology Imperialism
- Imperialism is part of target
- Portuguese Angola is in the era of Imperialism
- Conservative Party of Canada (1867–1942) has ideology Imperialism
- Michael Parenti's main interests are Imperialism
- Herero and Namaqua genocide motivation is Imperialism
- Faultline 49 is non-fiction on Imperialism
- Settlers: The Mythology of the White Proletariat is non-fiction on Imperialism
- Culture and Imperialism is non-fiction on Imperialism
- Japanese war crimes motivation is Imperialism
- Circassian genocide motivation is Imperialism
- etc.

Also, the categories include Category:History of colonialism, Category:Marxian economics, Category:Political systems, etc.

So possible questions could be:

1. Which political ideology is associated with the Conservative Party of Canada (1867–1942)? (Answer: Imperialism)
2. What category is imperialism linked to in terms of economic theory? (Answer: Marxian economics)
3. Which historical event is motivated by imperialism according to the facts? (Answer: Herero and Namaqua genocide)
4. What is the name of the book that is non-fiction on imperialism? (Answer: Culture and Imperialism)
5. What is the motivation behind Japanese war crimes as per the facts? (Answer: Imperialism)
6. Which template is used by imperialism for citations? (Answer: Template:Cite encyclopedia)
7. What is the main interest of Michael Parenti? (Answer: Imperialism)
8. Which country's party has imperialism as its ideology? (Answer: Conservative Party of Canada)
9. What is an example of a non-fiction work on imperialism? (Answer: Faultline 49)
10. Which historical figure is associated with imperialism in the context of economic theory? (Answer: Wolfgang Mommsen)

I need to ensure that these questions are not overlapping with the user's examples and are based on the provided facts and context. Also, the context mentions the Roman Empire as an example, but the facts are more about imperialism. However, the initial context is about empires, but the user's examples and facts are about imperialism. This is a bit conflicting, but given the user's examples and the facts, I'll proceed with imperialism-related questions.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual categoria de estudos é associada ao imperialismo em termos de teoria econômica?",
    "resposta": "Marxian economics"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual movimento político possui a ideologia do imperialismo, conforme mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Alliance for National Reconstruction"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual evento histórico está diretamente relacionado à motivação do imperialismo?",
    "resposta": "Genocídio Herero e Namaqua"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual livro é considerado uma obra não ficcional sobre o imperialismo?",
    "resposta": "Culture and Imperialism"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual modelo de citação é utilizado no contexto do imperialismo?",
    "resposta": "Template:Cite encyclopedia"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é o autor associado ao imperialismo, conforme mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Wolfgang Mommsen"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual país está envolvido no conflito motivado pelo imperialismo mencionado nos fatos?",
    "resposta": "Japão"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do partido político canadense que adota o imperialismo como ideologia?",
    "resposta": "Conservative Party of Canada (1867–1942)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual obra de Michael Parenti está relacionada ao imperialismo?",
    "resposta": "Estudos e análises sobre imperialismo"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual evento histórico está associado ao imperialismo no contexto da África?",
    "resposta": "Genocídio Herero e Namaqua"
  }
]