<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 question-answer pairs based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by reviewing the context and facts to identify key points that can form the basis of the questions.

First, the context mentions that Warsaw is the capital of Poland, located on the Vistula River, 260 km from the Baltic Sea, and 300 km from the Carpathians. Population in 2012 was around 1.7 million. It's also the seat of the Masovian Voivodeship, has various industries, universities, and historical events like the Warsaw Uprising and the destruction during WWII. It was rebuilt after the war, leading to the nickname "Phoenix City." The Old Town is a UNESCO site, and it's known for the Pact of Warsaw and the Treaty of Warsaw.

Looking at the facts, there's a lot of information about people born or died in Warsaw, institutions based there, events, temperatures, locations of buildings, and other specifics. However, the user wants questions that are relevant to the context provided in the context section, not just the facts. So I need to focus on the context first, then check the facts for additional points that align with the context.

Let me start by listing possible questions from the context:

1. What is the capital of Poland?
   Answer: Warsaw

2. On which river is Warsaw located?
   Answer: Vistula

3. How far is Warsaw from the Baltic Sea?
   Answer: 260 km

4. What is the population of Warsaw according to 2012 data?
   Answer: 1,716,855

5. What is the nickname given to Warsaw due to its reconstruction after WWII?
   Answer: Phoenix City

6. What event led to the destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto?
   Answer: The Warsaw Ghetto Uprising in 1943

7. What is the name of the UNESCO World Heritage Site in Warsaw?
   Answer: Old Town of Warsaw

8. Which international organization has its headquarters in Warsaw?
   Answer: Frontex (European Border and Coast Guard Agency)

9. What are some of the major industries in Warsaw?
   Answer: Consumer goods, steel, electrical engineering, automobiles

10. What is the significance of the year 1569 in Warsaw's history?
    Answer: King Sigismundo III moved the capital from Kraków to Warsaw.

Now, checking the facts for any additional points that can be used. For example, some facts mention institutions like the Pilecki Institute, Ministry of Finance, and others located in Warsaw. Also, there are mentions of temperatures, like the minimum in April and average in May.

But the user wants the questions to be based on the context provided, so I need to ensure that the facts are not the primary source unless they are explicitly mentioned in the context. For example, the context mentions the Frontex, so that's a valid question. The temperature data might not be in the context, but the user included it in the facts. However, the initial context doesn't mention temperatures, so maybe those are not suitable unless the user's instruction allows using the facts as supplementary.

Wait, the user's instruction says to generate questions based on the context and facts. So it's okay to use the facts, but the questions should be related to both. However, the initial context does not mention temperatures, so maybe those facts are not relevant for the context-based questions. Therefore, I should focus on the context first.

Looking back, the examples provided by the user include questions about the classification by The Economist Intelligence Unit in 2012. That's in the context, so that's valid.

So, I need to ensure that all 10 questions are derived from either the context or the facts, but not adding anything outside. Let me check each of my initial questions against the context:

1. Capital of Poland - yes.
2. Vistula river - yes.
3. 260 km from Baltic - yes.
4. 2012 population - yes.
5. Phoenix City - yes.
6. Ghetto Uprising - yes.
7. Old Town as UNESCO - yes.
8. Frontex - yes.
9. Industries - yes.
10. 1569 - yes.

That's 10 questions. Now, I need to make sure the answers are accurate and match the context exactly. Also, check for any typos or formatting issues. For example, the river is "Vístula" in the context, but sometimes it's spelled "Vistula" in English. The user's example uses "Vístula," so I should use that. Also, the temperature data is in the facts, but not in the context, so maybe they shouldn't be included unless the context is expanded. But since the user included them in the facts, perhaps it's acceptable, but the examples don't use them. Maybe it's safer to focus on the context.

Thus, my initial list of 10 questions should be sufficient. Let me format them properly, ensuring the answers are correct and match the context.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a capital da Polônia?",
    "resposta": "Varsóvia"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em qual rio está localizada Varsóvia?",
    "resposta": "Vístula"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "A que distância está Varsóvia do mar Báltico?",
    "resposta": "cerca de 260 km"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual era a população de Varsóvia em 2012, conforme mencionado no texto?",
    "resposta": "1.716.855"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o apelido de Varsóvia devido à sua reconstrução após a Segunda Guerra Mundial?",
    "resposta": "Cidade Fênix"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual evento histórico levou à destruição do Gueto de Varsóvia?",
    "resposta": "A Revolta do Gueto de Varsóvia em 1943"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do sítio da UNESCO localizado em Varsóvia?",
    "resposta": "Cidade Velha de Varsóvia"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a agência europeia para segurança das fronteiras externas que tem sede em Varsóvia?",
    "resposta": "Frontex"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais são algumas das principais indústrias de Varsóvia mencionadas no texto?",
    "resposta": "Produtos de consumo, aço, engenharia elétrica e automóveis"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a importância do ano de 1569 na história de Varsóvia?",
    "resposta": "O rei Sigismundo III transferiu a capital da Polônia de Cracóvia para Varsóvia"
  }
]