<think>
Okay, I need to generate 10 pairs of questions and answers based on the provided context and facts. Let me start by reading through the context and facts carefully to make sure I understand all the key points.

The main subject is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The context explains that it's a scientific-political organization created in 1988 under the UN by the UN Environment Programme and the World Meteorological Organization. Its main goal is to synthesize and disseminate the latest knowledge on climate change, including causes, effects, risks, and ways to combat them. It doesn't do original research but summarizes work by independent scientists. It's the main authority on global warming and has been the basis for global and national climate policies, though it faces criticism. It has produced five major reports and some other documents, with the first in 1990 and the last in 2014. It received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007.

The facts provided include various types and categories related to the IPCC, such as being a United Nations entity, a climate change organization, based in Geneva, having a Nobel Prize, and so on. Also, there are mentions of people associated with it, like Filippo Giorgi, Richard Samson Odingo, Julie Arblaster, Sergey Gulev, Kevin E. Trenberth, Rajendra K. Pachauri, Bert Bolin, Mohan Munasinghe, Hoesung Lee, and others. The IPCC is abbreviated as IPCC, and it's part of the World Meteorological Organization and the UN Environment Programme.

Now, I need to create 10 distinct questions that cover different aspects. Let me list possible topics:

1. What is the full name of the organization abbreviated as IPCC?
2. What are the two organizations that established the IPCC?
3. What is the main objective of the IPCC?
4. Which organization is the IPCC part of?
5. Where is the IPCC based?
6. What is the name of the Nobel Prize winner related to the IPCC?
7. What is the role of the IPCC in climate policy?
8. What is the title of the leader of the IPCC?
9. Who are some of the people associated with the IPCC?
10. What is the significance of the Nobel Prize for the IPCC?

Wait, but the examples given in the prompt have some of these. Let me check the examples again. The examples include questions about the organization's establishment, its role, the president, the Nobel Prize, etc. I need to ensure that the questions I create are different from the examples but still based on the facts provided.

Looking at the facts again, there are mentions of the IPCC's types (like YagoLegalActor, WikicatUnitedNations, etc.), its headquarters in Geneva, its relation to the World Meteorological Organization and UN Environment Programme, the Nobel Prize, the five reports, the year of the first and last report, the fact that it's a panel, and the people associated with it.

So, possible questions:

- What is the full name of the organization abbreviated as IPCC?
- Which two organizations established the IPCC?
- What is the main function of the IPCC?
- What is the headquarters location of the IPCC?
- What is the significance of the Nobel Peace Prize for the IPCC?
- What is the main role of the IPCC in climate policy?
- Which international organization is the IPCC part of?
- Who is the current leader of the IPCC?
- What is the name of the first president of the IPCC?
- What is the main subject of the IPCC's reports?

I need to make sure that each question is unique and based on the facts. Also, the answers must be directly from the context or the facts provided. Let me check the facts again to confirm.

Yes, the facts mention that the IPCC is part of the World Meteorological Organization and the UN Environment Programme. The Nobel Prize was awarded in 2007. The first report was in 1990, last in 2014. The current leader is Hoesung Lee. The first president was Bert Bolin. The headquarters is in Geneva. The full name is Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The main function is to synthesize and disseminate knowledge on climate change. The two organizations that established it are the UN Environment Programme and the World Meteorological Organization.

So, I can structure the questions around these points. Let me make sure not to repeat the same questions as the examples. The examples had questions about the organizations that established it, the first president, the current leader, the Nobel Prize, etc. So I need to vary the questions but still use the facts.

Another possible question: What is the main topic of the reports produced by the IPCC?

Another: What is the name of the organization that the IPCC is part of, besides the UN?

Another: What is the main function of the IPCC in relation to climate change?

Another: What is the name of the person who is the current leader of the IPCC?

Another: What is the year of the first and last report of the IPCC?

Another: What is the name of the organization that established the IPCC in 1988?

Another: What is the main goal of the IPCC according to the text?

Another: What is the name of the Nobel Prize that the IPCC received?

Another: What is the name of the organization that the IPCC is part of, which is related to meteorology?

Wait, but I need to make sure that each question is unique and covers different aspects. Let me list them:

1. What is the full name of the organization abbreviated as IPCC?
2. Which two organizations established the IPCC in 1988?
3. What is the main function of the IPCC?
4. What is the headquarters location of the IPCC?
5. What is the name of the Nobel Prize awarded to the IPCC?
6. What is the main role of the IPCC in climate policy?
7. Which international organization is the IPCC part of, besides the UN?
8. Who is the current leader of the IPCC?
9. What is the name of the first president of the IPCC?
10. What is the year of the first and last report of the IPCC?

I need to check if these are all covered in the facts. Yes, the first two are covered. The main function is in the context. Headquarters in Geneva. Nobel Prize in 2007. Role in climate policy. The other organization is the World Meteorological Organization. Current leader is Hoesung Lee. First president is Bert Bolin. First report 1990, last 2014.

Yes, that should work. Now, I need to phrase them as questions and ensure the answers are correct based on the facts provided.
</think>

[
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome completo da organização abreviada como IPCC?",
    "resposta": "Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quais duas organizações estabeleceram o IPCC em 1988?",
    "resposta": "o Programa das Nações Unidas para o Meio Ambiente (PNUMA) e a Organização Meteorológica Mundial (OMM)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é a principal função do IPCC?",
    "resposta": "sintetizar e disseminar o conhecimento mais recente sobre mudanças climáticas"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Onde está sediado o IPCC?",
    "resposta": "em Genebra"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o nome do Prêmio Nobel recebido pelo IPCC?",
    "resposta": "Prêmio da Paz"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual é o papel principal do IPCC em políticas climáticas?",
    "resposta": "servir como referência científica para acordos internacionais e políticas públicas"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual organização internacional o IPCC faz parte, além das Nações Unidas?",
    "resposta": "a Organização Meteorológica Mundial (OMM)"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Quem é o líder atual do IPCC?",
    "resposta": "Hoesung Lee"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Qual foi o primeiro presidente do IPCC?",
    "resposta": "Bert Bolin"
  },
  {
    "pergunta": "Em que anos foram publicados os primeiros e últimos relatórios do IPCC?",
    "resposta": "os primeiros em 1990 e os últimos em 2014"
  }
]